you /juː/
- used to refer to the person or people being spoken or written to: 
    You look nice.
    I love you.
    You said I could go with you.
    You're coming tonight, aren't you?
    Are you two ready?
    You painted that yourself? That's great!
- people in general: 
    You learn to accept these things as you get older.
    You can't get a driving licence till you're 17 in this country.
    Too much alcohol is bad for you.
    How do you get this thing to start?
idioms:
 you got it

I /aɪ/
- used as the subject of a verb to refer to the person speaking or writing: 
    I love you.
    Am I invited?
    I'm not mistaken, am I?
    I'd like a coffee, please.

to strong /tuː/
- used before a verb to show that it is in the infinitive
- used after some verbs, especially when the action described in the infinitive will happen later: 
    She agreed to help.
    I'll have to tell him.
    Sadly, she didn't live to see her grandchildren.
- used after many verbs of agreeing, needing, and wanting: 
    I need to eat something first.
    I'd love to live in New York.
    That child ought to be in bed.
- used instead of repeating a verb clause: 
    "Are you going tonight?" "I'm certainly hoping to."
- used in phrases where there are reported orders and requests: 
    He told me to wait.
    Did anyone ask Daniel to reserve the room?
- used after some adjectives: 
    It's not likely to happen.
    Three months is too long to wait.
    She's not strong enough to go hiking up mountains.
- used after some nouns: 
    He has this enviable ability to ignore everything that's unpleasant in life.
    This will be my second attempt to make flaky pastry.
- A clause containing to + infinitive can be used as the subject of a sentence: 
    To go overseas on your own is very brave.
    My plan was to get it all arranged before I told anyone.
- used after question words: 
    I don't know what to do.
    Can you tell me how to get there?
- used with an infinitive to express use or purpose: 
    I'm going there to see my sister.
    This tool is used to make holes in leather.
    To make this cake, you'll need two eggs, 175 grams of sugar, and 175 grams of flour.
    He works to get paid, not because he enjoys it.
- You can introduce a clause with a phrase containing to + infinitive: 
    To be honest (= speaking honestly), Becky, I like thegrey shirt better.
    To tell you the truth, I never really liked the man.
- used with an infinitive after 'there is' or 'there are' and a noun: 
    There's an awful lot of work to be done.
- To be going on with means in order to continue with the present activity or situation: 
    Do we have enough paint to be going on with, or should I get some more while I'm out?
- in the direction of: 
    We're going to town on the bus, okay?
    We went to Prague last year.
    I asked someone the way to the town centre.
    You can walk from here to the school in under ten minutes.
    I asked Kirsten and Kai to dinner (= invited them to come and eat dinner with me) next week.
    We received another invitation to a wedding this morning.
    I had my back to them, so I couldn't see what they were doing.
    She walked over to the window.
    He went up to a complete stranger and started talking.
    You've got your sweater on back to front (= with the back of the sweater on the chest).
- used for showing who receives something or who experiences an action: 
    I lent my bike to my brother.
    I told that to Alex and he just laughed.
    Who's the letter addressed to?
- With many verbs that have two objects, 'to' can be used before the indirect object: 
    Give me that gun./Give that gun to me.
- until a particular time, state, or level is reached: 
    It's only two weeks to Christmas.
    Unemployment has risen to almost eight million.
    He drank himself to death.
    She nursed me back to health.
- used when saying the time, to mean before the stated hour: 
    It's twenty to six.
- used to suggest an extreme state: 
    Look at your shirt - it's torn to shreds!
    She was thrilled to bits.
    I was bored to tears.
- in connection with: 
    What was their response to your query?
    She was so mean to me.
    There's a funny side to everything.
- used to say where something is fastened or connected: 
    The paper was stuck to the wall with tape.
    A fast rail service connects us to the city.
- used before an infinitive, usually with 'be', to indicate a future action: 
    The government announced today that it is to cut funding for the arts for next year.
- used in this pattern to say what someone should do or to give an order: 
    You're not to (= you must not) bite your nails like that.
- Newspapers often use to + infinitive without 'be' in their headlines (= titles of articles) when reporting planned future events: 
    Russia to send troops in.
- causing a particular feeling in a particular person: 
    That's when I found out, to my amazement, that she was coming here.
- considered by: 
    I realize it may sound strange to you.
    I mean, £50 is nothing to him (= he would not consider it a large amount).
    "I hear you've been going out with Ella." "Yeah, so? What's it to you?" (= It should not interest you, and you have no right to ask about it.)
- serving: 
    As a personal trainer to the rich and famous, he earns over a million dollars a year.
- against or very near: 
    Stand back to back.
    They were dancing cheek to cheek.
- matching or belonging to: 
    My dad gave me the keys to his car.
    I've lost the trousers to this jacket.
- having as a characteristic feature: 
    She has a mean side to her.
    There is a very moral tone to this book.
- used to show the position of something or someone in comparison with something or someone else: 
    John's standing to the left of Adrian in the photo.
    The Yorkshire Dales are twenty miles to the north of the city.
- in honour or memory of: 
    I proposed a toast to the bride and the groom.
    The record is dedicated to her mother, who died recently.
- for each: 
    How many dollars are there to the pound?
    This car does about 40 miles to the gallon.
    When we go swimming together I do six lengths to her twelve.
- used in phrases that show a range: 
    There were probably 30 to 35 (= a number between 30 and 35) people there.
- at the same time as music or other sound: 
    I like exercising to music.
    He left the stage to the sound of booing.
- relating to a positive reaction or result: 
    When the pasta is done to your liking, drain the water.
    I think being at the meeting would be to your advantage.
- compared with: 
    She's earning a reasonable wage, but nothing to what she could if she was in the private sector.
    Paul beat me by three games to two (= he won three and I won two).
    He was old enough to be her father - she looked about 30 to his 60.
- into a closed position: 
    I'll just push the door to.

the strong /ðiː/
- used before nouns to refer to particular things or people that have already been talked about or are already known or that are in a situation where it is clear what is happening: 
    I just bought a new shirt and some new shoes. The shirt was pretty expensive, but the shoes weren't.
    Please would you pass the salt.
    I'll pick you up at the airport.
- used before some nouns that refer to place when you want to mention that type of place, without showing exactly which example of the place you mean: 
    We spent all day at the beach.
    Let's go to the movies this evening.
    I have to go to the bank and get some Euros.
- used before noun phrases in which the range of meaning of the noun is limited in some way: 
    I really enjoyed the book I've just finished reading.
    Do you like the other kids in your class?
- used to refer to things or people when only one exists at any one time: 
    What will happen in the future?
    After I leave college, I want to travel around the world.
    They live in the north of Spain.
    Ed Koch was for many years the mayor of New York.
    When we went to Paris, we went up the Eiffel Tower.
- used before superlatives and other words, such as "first" or "only" or numbers showing something's position in a list, to refer to only one thing or person: 
    That was one of the best films I've ever seen.
    What's the highest mountain in Asia?
    I will never forget the first time we met.
    You're the fifth person to ask me that question.
- used to say that the particular person or thing being mentioned is the best, most famous, etc. In this use, "the" is usually given strong pronunciation: 
    Harry's Bar is the place to go.
    You don't mean you met the Will Smith (= the film star), do you?
- used before some adjectives to turn the adjectives into nouns that refer to one particular person or thing described by the adjective: 
    It seems that the deceased (= this particular dead person) had no living relatives.
    I suppose we'll just have to wait for the inevitable (= the particular thing that is certain to happen).
- used before some adjectives to turn the adjectives into nouns that refer to people or things in general that can be described by the adjective: 
    She lives in a special home for the elderly.
    The French were defeated at Waterloo in 1815.
- used before a singular noun to refer to all the things or people represented by that noun: 
    The panda is becoming an increasingly rare animal.
    The car is responsible for causing a lot of damage to our environment.
- used before a family name to refer to two people who are married or to a whole family: 
    The Jacksons are coming to visit on Saturday.
- used before some nouns referring to musical instruments or dances to mean the type of instrument or dance in general: 
    Nico is learning to play the piano.
    Can you do the waltz?
- used before a noun to represent the activity connected with that noun: 
    I'm going under the knife (= having a medical operation) next week.
    It's not a good idea to spend more than three hours at the wheel (= driving a vehicle) without a break.
- used before numbers that refer to periods of ten years: 
    the 60s
- used before each of two comparative adjectives or adverbs when you want to show how one amount gets bigger or smaller in relation to the other: 
    The sooner I get this piece of work done, the sooner I can go home.
- used before comparative adjectives or adverbs when you want to show that someone or something has become more or less of a particular state: 
    She doesn't seem to be any the worse for her bad experience.
- used for emphasis when you are expressing a strong opinion about someone or something: 
    André's got a new job, the lucky devil.
- used instead of a possessive adjective such as your, her, or my: 
    He held his daughter by the arm (= her arm).
    I can't remember where I parked the (= my) car.
- enough: 
    I'd like to go out tonight, but I don't think I have the energy.
    I don't have the time to talk to you now.
- each; every: 
    It does 30 miles to the gallon.

and strong /ænd/
- used to join two words, phrases, parts of sentences, or related statements together: 
    Ann and Jim
    boys and girls
    knives and forks
    We were wet and tired.
    We kissed and hugged each other.
    Tidy up your room. And don't forget to make your bed!
- together with other similar things: 
    schools, colleges, and so on
- and everything else: 
    She bought the whole lot - house, farm, horses, and all.
- too: 
    I'd like some and all.
- and everything related to the subject mentioned: 
    She likes grammar and all that.
- used to mean that either one of two things or both of them is possible: 
    Many pupils have extra classes in the evenings and/or at weekends.
- used to join two parts of a sentence, one part happening after the other part: 
    I got dressed and had my breakfast.
- as a result: 
    Bring the flowers into a warm room and they'll soon open.
    Stand over there and you'll be able to see it better.
- With certain verbs, "and" can mean "in order to": 
    I asked him to go and find my glasses.
    Come and see me tomorrow.
    Wait and see (= wait in order to see) what happens.
    Try and get (= try to get) some tickets for tonight's performance.
- If "and" is used to join two words that are the same, it makes their meaning stronger: 
    She spends hours and hours (= a very long time) on the phone.
    The sound grew louder and louder (= very loud).
    We laughed and laughed (= laughed a lot).
- used to express surprise: 
    You're a vegetarian and you eat fish?

that /ðæt/
that | plural those
- used to refer to a person, object, idea, etc. that is separated from the speaker by space or time: 
    I've never liked that cousin of hers.
    Who's that? Is that the girl you told me about?
    How much are those shoes?
    His handwriting is like that (= the writing) of a much younger child.
- used to refer to something that has been mentioned or was involved earlier, or to something that is already known about: 
    Where's that pen (= the one I was using earlier) gone?
    She lives in that house at the end of Jeremy's street (= you know which one I mean).
- used to introduce a clause that reports something or gives further information, although it can often be left out: 
    She said (that) she'd pick it up for me after work.
    Is it true (that) she's gone back to teaching?
    We'll be there at about 7.30, provided/providing (that) there's not too much traffic.
    It was so dark (that) I couldn't see anything.
- used as the subject or object of a verb to show which person or thing you are referring to, or to add information about a person or thing just mentioned. It is used for both people and things. It can often be left out: 
    I can't find the books (that) I got from the library.
    Is this the train that goes to Braintree?
    Have you been to the restaurant that's just opened in town?
- used to make a connection with an earlier statement: 
    My car broke down. That's why I'm so late.
    Lucy worked out how to fix it. That's Lucy for you (= She can fix anything).
- used to express a reaction to something: 
    I didn't know she'd been so ill. That's terrible.
    Turn the engine on, then put the car in gear. That's right (= you are doing it correctly).
    Smile for the camera. That's more like it (= that smile is better than before).
- as much as suggested: 
    She's too young to walk that far.
    It wasn't (all) that (= very) good.
idioms:
 ... at that
 that is (to say)
 that will do
 that's it
 that's life!
 that's that

of weak /əv/
- used to show possession, belonging, or origin: 
    a friend of mine
    the president of the United States
    employees of the company
    the colour of his hair
    a habit of mine
    that revolting dog of hers
    the love of a good woman
    the complete plays of (= written by) Lorca
- used after words or phrases expressing amount, number, or a particular unit: 
    a kilo of apples
    loads of food
    hundreds of people
    most of them
    none of them
    both of us
    a third of all people
    a speck of dust
    a drop of rain
- containing: 
    a bag of sweets
    a bottle of beer
    a book of short stories
    a class of idiots
- used in expressions showing position: 
    the top of his head
    the back of your dress
    on the corner of the street
    the front of the queue
    I've never been north of Philadelphia.
- typical or characteristic of: 
    She has the face of an angel.
    That guy's got the personality of a dead fish!
- used to refer to a particular date in a month: 
    the eleventh of March
    the first of the month
- made or consisting of; having: 
    dresses of lace and silk
    plates of gold and silver
    a land of ice and snow
    a woman of great charm
    a subject of very little interest
- used to connect particular adjectives and verbs with nouns: 
    fond of swimming
    sick of his excuses
    scared of spiders
- used after an adjective when judging someone's behaviour: 
    It was mean of you to mention her weight.
    Thank you so much for my present. How thoughtful of you.
- about; relating to: 
    Speaking of Elizabeth, here she is.
    One of the advantages of travelling by train is being able to read.
    Let us consider the events of the last five months.
    Of her childhood we know very little.
    And what of (= tell me about) young Adrian? How is he?
- that is/are: 
    the problem of homelessness
    a rise of two percent in inflation
    the skill of negotiating
    the difficulty of bringing up twins
    the pain of separation
    At the age of six she could read a newspaper.
- done to: 
    the massacre of hundreds of innocent people
    the oppression of a nation
    the destruction of the rain forest
- felt or experienced by: 
    the suffering of millions
    the anguish of the murdered child's parents
- through; having as the cause: 
    He died of cancer.
    I didn't have to go there - I did it of my own free will.
    I want to know how it happened because it certainly didn't happen of itself.
- used when comparing related things: 
    I liked the green one best of all .
    Worst of all was the food!
    He's the best looking of the three brothers.
    I think that of all his books it's my favourite.
- used in saying what the time is: 
    It's ten (minutes) of five (= ten minutes before five o'clock).
- used in expressions showing distance from something in place or time: 
    We live within a mile of the school.
    She came within two seconds of beating the world record.
- used in expressions showing loss: 
    They were robbed of all their savings.
    I feel I've been deprived of your company.
- during: 
    I like to relax with a pipe of an evening.
idioms:
 of all people/things/places

me /miː/
- used, usually as the object of a verb or preposition, to refer to the person speaking or writing: 
    Is there one for me?
    She gave me some money.
    Could you pass me that book?
    It wasn't me who offered to go, it was Charlotte.
- the musical note 
mi 
- abbreviation for myalgic encephalomyelitis: an illness, sometimes lasting for several years, in which a person's muscles and joints (= places where two bones are connected) hurt and they are generally very tired
- written abbreviation for the US state of Maine: used in addresses
idioms:
 is it me, or...?

in /ɪn/
- inside a container, place, or area, or surrounded or closed off by something: 
    Is Mark still in bed?
    I got stuck in a traffic jam for half an hour.
    They live in a charming old house.
    How much is that coat on display in the window (= in the space behind the window of the shop)?
    I've got a pain in my back.
    What's that in your hand?
    I've got something in (= on the surface of) my eye.
    They used to live in Paris, but now they're somewhere in Austria.
    He's always looking at himself in the mirror (= at the image of his face produced by the mirror).
    I never know what's going on in her head (= what she's thinking about).
    My daughter's in hospital (US in the hospital) having her tonsils out.
    Is Erika still in school (= does she still go to school)?
- into something: 
    Come on, we're late - get in the car.
    Put the milk back in the fridge when you've finished with it.
    They threw him in the swimming pool.
- forming a part of something: 
    He used to be the lead singer in a rock band.
    There are too many spelling mistakes in this essay.
    I've been waiting in this queue for ages.
    What do you look for in a relationship?
    I can see a future champion in Joely (= I think that Joely might become a champion).
    Talent like hers is rare in someone so young.
- during part or all of a period of time: 
    We're going to Italy in April.
    Some trees lose their leaves in (the) autumn.
    I started working here in 2009.
    Life in the 19th century was very different from what it is now.
    Bye, see you in the morning (= tomorrow morning).
    She was a brilliant gymnast in her youth (= when she was young).
    How many civilians died in the Vietnam War?
    This is the first cigarette I've had in three years.
    I haven't had a decent night's sleep in years/ages (= for a long time).
- between the two times mentioned: 
    I have breakfast at 7.30, lunch at 1.00, and sometimes a snack in between.
- needing or using no more time than a particular amount of time: 
    Can you finish the job in two weeks?
    She could get that essay done in a couple of hours if she really tried.
    They completed the journey in record time (= faster than ever done before).
- before or at the end of a particular period: 
    Dinner will be ready in ten minutes.
    We'll all be dead in a hundred years so there's no point worrying about it.
    I'm just setting off, so I should be with you in half an hour.
- experiencing a situation or condition, or feeling an emotion: 
    We watched in horror as they pulled the bodies from the wreckage.
    He's living in luxury in the south of France.
    She left in a bit of a hurry.
    You're in great danger.
    Could I have a word with you in private?
    Have you ever been in love?
    Your car's in very good condition, considering how old it is.
- expressed or written in a particular way: 
    Cheques should be written in ink.
    She usually paints in watercolour.
    They spoke in Russian the whole time.
    He always talks in a whisper.
- used when referring to something that is done as a result of something else: 
    I'd like to do something for you in return/exchange for everything you've done for me.
    The changes are in response to demand from our customers.
    He refused to say anything in reply to the journalists' questions.
- used to show how things or people are arranged or divided: 
    We all sat down in a circle.
    The desks were arranged in rows of ten.
    Discounts are available to people travelling in large groups.
    Sometimes customers buy books in twos and threes, but rarely in larger quantities than that.
    Cut the potatoes in two.
    People are dying in their thousands from cold and starvation.
- used when referring approximately to someone's age or the weather temperature: 
    Nowadays many women are in their late thirties when they have their first child.
    Temperatures will be in the mid-twenties (= about 25 degrees).
- involved or connected with a particular subject or activity: 
    I never knew you were in publishing.
    a degree in philosophy
    advances in medical science
- wearing: 
    Do you recognize that man in the grey suit?
    Pat can't resist men in uniform.
    You look nice in green (= green clothes).
- used to compare one part of an amount of something with the total amount of it: 
    Apparently one in ten people/one person in ten has problems with reading.
    The basic rate of income tax is 25 pence in (US on) the pound.
- used to show which characteristic or part of a person or thing is being described: 
    The new version is worse in every respect - I much preferred the original.
    Are the two bags equal in weight?
    She's deaf in her left ear.
- used to show when doing one thing is the cause of another thing happening: 
    In refusing (= because she refused) to work abroad, she missed an excellent job opportunity.
    The government banned tobacco advertising and, in doing so (= because of this), contributed greatly to the nation's health.
- because: 
    This research is important in that it confirms the link between aggression and alcohol.
- from outside, or towards the centre: 
    Could you bring the clothes in for me?
    The roof of their house caved in during a hurricane.
    Cut the pastry into a square and turn in the corners.
- to often be staying in and receiving treatment in a particular place: 
    She's been in and out of hospitals ever since the accident.
- at home or at work: 
    When did you get home? I never heard you come in.
    Mr Ellis isn't in this week.
- within an object, area, or substance: 
    We've been shut in all day.
    Has the soup got any salt in?
- having arrived at the place where people can get on or off: 
    What time is Roz's flight due in?
- given or sent to someone official in order to be read: 
    When does your essay have to be in?
    Remember to get your application in by the end of the week.
- towards the coast, beach, or harbour: 
    The tide comes in very quickly here and you can soon find yourself stranded.
    We stood watching the ship come in.
- used to refer to an activity that makes something complete: 
    Just pencil in the answer unless you're sure it's correct.
    The text is finished, but the pictures will have to be pasted in later.
    Would you mind filling in a questionnaire about what you watch on television?
- If the ball is in during a game of tennis or a similar sport, it has not gone outside the edges of the area on which the game is played: 
    I won that point, I'm telling you! The ball was definitely in!
- taking your turn to play, especially taking your turn to hit the ball: 
    Who's in next for our team?
    It started to rain just as our team was going in to bat.
- fashionable or popular: 
    High heels are in this season.
    The new jazz club seems to be the in place to go at the moment.
- written abbreviation for 
inch 
- used to add the meaning "not", "lacking", or "the opposite of" to adjectives and to words formed from adjectives: 
    incomplete/incompletely
    illegal/illegally
    impossible/impossibly
    irregular/irregularly
- abbreviation for intranasal: through the nose: 
    IN drug delivery offers advantages such as ease of administration and rapid onset of action.
- written abbreviation for the US state of Indiana: used in addresses
- used to form a noun which describes an activity in which many people take part: 
    a sit-in/phone-in
idioms:
 be nothing/not much/very little in it
 in all
 in all honesty/seriousness/truthfulness
 be/get in with sb
 in for sth
 in on sth
 be well in there

this /ðɪs/
this | plural these uk/ðiːz/ us/ðiːz/
- used for a person, object, idea, etc. to show which one is referred to: 
    Can you sign this form here for me?
    These books are too heavy for me to carry.
    We met this girl (= the girl I am going to tell you about) in the hotel.
    This is the one I want.
    What's this? Is this what you're looking for?
    What's this I hear about you moving to Scotland?
- used when you introduce someone to someone else: 
    Harry, this is Joan.
- already: 
    I thought you'd be done by this time.
- as much as shown or to a particular degree: 
    It was only about this high off the ground.
    She has never been this late for school before.
- used on social media as a reaction to something such as a picture, news article, or opinion, to make people notice it, or to say that you agree with it, or think it is important, etc.: 
    She retweeted his words with the simple comment, "This."
idioms:
 this and that

for strong /fɔːr/
- intended to be given to: 
    There's a phone message for you.
    I'd better buy something for the new baby.
    There's a prize for the fastest three runners in each category.
- having the purpose of: 
    There's a sign there saying "boats for hire".
    This pool is for the use of hotel guests only.
    I'm sorry, the books are not for sale.
    They've invited us for dinner on Saturday.
    Everyone in the office is contributing money for his leaving present.
    I need some money for tonight.
    Which vitamins should you take for (= in order to cure) skin problems?
    Put those clothes in a pile for washing (= so that they can be washed).
- because of or as a result of something: 
    I'm feeling all the better for my holiday.
    "How are you?" "Fine, and all the better for seeing you!"
    She did 15 years in prison for murder.
    I don't eat meat for various reasons.
    I couldn't see for the tears in my eyes.
    The things you do for love!
    He's widely disliked in the company for his arrogance.
    She couldn't talk for coughing (= she was coughing too much to talk).
    Scotland is famous for its spectacular countryside.
    He's best remembered for his novels.
    I didn't say anything for fear of (= because I was frightened of) offending him.
- without: 
    If it wasn't for the life jacket, I would have drowned.
- used to show an amount of time or distance: 
    We walked for miles.
    She's out of the office for a few days next week.
    I'm just going to lie down for an hour or so.
    I haven't played tennis for years.
- on the occasion of or at the time of: 
    What did you buy him for Christmas?
    I'd like an appointment with the doctor for some time this week.
    We're having a party for Jim's 60th birthday.
    I've booked a table at the restaurant for nine o'clock.
- used for comparing one thing with others of the same type: 
    She's very mature for her age.
    For every two people in favour of the law there are three against.
    The winter has been unusually cold for Florida.
    It was a difficult decision, especially for a child.
    For a man of his wealth he's not exactly generous.
- used to say whose responsibility something is: 
    She knew the driver of the other car was not responsible for her son's death.
- in support of or in agreement with: 
    I voted for the Greens at the last election.
    Those voting for the motion, 96, and those voting against, 54.
    Most of the Republicans voted for the measure.
    So let's hear some applause for these talented young performers.
    Who's for (= who wants to play) tennis?
- to approve of or support something very much: 
    I've got nothing against change - I'm all for it.
    I'm all for gender equality, but I think the most qualified person should get the job.
- in order to help someone: 
    Let me carry those bags for you.
    Hello, what can I do for you?
    My sister will take care of the dog for us while we're away.
- in relation to someone or something: 
    Her feelings for him had changed.
    He felt nothing but contempt for her.
    I've got a lot of admiration for people who do that sort of work.
    He's quite good-looking but he's too short for me.
    The ice-cream was a little bit sweet for me.
    That jacket looks a little big for you.
    Jackie's already left and, as for me, I'm going at the end of the month.
    Luckily for me (= I was lucky), I already had another job.
    How are you doing for money/time (= do you have enough money/time)?
- despite: 
    For all her qualifications, she's still useless at the job.
- (getting) in exchange: 
    How much did you pay for your glasses?
    I've sponsored her £1 for every mile that she runs.
    She sold the house for a lot of money.
    The mechanic said he'd repair my car for £300.
- being employed by or representing a company, country, etc.: 
    She works for a charity.
    He swam for the United States in the 2000 Olympics.
- towards; in the direction of: 
    They looked as if they were heading for the train station.
    Just follow signs for the museum.
    This time tomorrow we'll be setting off for the States.
    It says this train is for (= going to stop at) Birmingham and Coventry only.
- showing meaning: 
    What's the Spanish word for "vegetarian"?
    What does the "M.J." stand for? Maria José?
- in order to get or achieve: 
    I hate waiting for public transport.
    I had to run for the bus.
    Did you send off for details of the competition?
    I've applied for a job with another computer company.
- the duty or responsibility of: 
    As to whether you should marry him - that's for you to decide.
    It's not for me to tell her what she should do with her life.
    "How many people should I invite to the party?" "It's not really for me to say."
- in trouble: 
    You'll be for it when she finds out!
- because; as: 
    She remained silent, for her heart was heavy and her spirits low.
idioms:
 for all sb cares/knows
 that/there's ... for you
 what ... for?

no /nəʊ/
- not any; not one; not a: 
    There's no butter left.
    There are no pockets in these trousers.
    That's my kind of holiday - no email, no phone, and no worries.
    There's no chance (= no possibility) of us getting there by eight.
- used in signs and on notices to show that something is not allowed: 
    No smoking/fishing.
- used to give negative answers: 
    "Did you feed the cat?" "No, I forgot."
    "Would you like any more cake?" "No, thank you."
    "Do you have any homework tonight?" "No."
- not; not any: 
    The exam is no more difficult than the tests you've been doing in class.
    The issues are of no great interest (= only a little interest) to me.
- used at the end of a sentence to ask if someone agrees with you or to check that you have understood something correctly: 
    Maybe you had a dream. No?
    The election is next week, no?
- a negative answer or reaction: 
    "Did you get any replies about the camping weekend?" "So far we have two yeses, a no, and a maybe."
- a vote against a suggestion, idea, law, etc., or a person who votes no: 
    14 ayes to 169 noes - the noes have it (= have won).
- written abbreviation for number: 
    They live at No. 17.
    The answers to nos 13–20 are on page 21.
- written abbreviation for
Number Ten 
idioms:
 there's no knowing/telling/saying

have strong /hæv/
have | had | had
- used with the past participle of other verbs to form the present perfect and past perfect: 
    I've heard that story before.
    Diane's already gone.
    John hasn't phoned.
    I haven't visited London before.
    Have you seen Roz?
    Has she been invited?
    They still hadn't had any news when I spoke to them yesterday.
    Had I known (= if I had known) you were coming, I'd have booked a larger room.
- to own: 
    They have a beautiful home.
    He has plenty of money but no style.
    I've got two brothers.
    Do you have time to finish the report today?
    I've got a suggestion/an idea.
- to do one good thing, although you do other bad or silly things: 
    At least he had the good sense to turn the gas off.
    At least she had the decency to apologize.
- If you have a particular illness, you suffer from it: 
    Have you ever had measles?
    I've got a cold.
- to perform the action mentioned: 
    have a wash/bath/shower
    I had a swim.
    We had a short walk after lunch.
    I've never done it before but I'd like to have a try (= to try).
    Why don't you have a rest?
- to eat or drink something: 
    I had prawns and rice for lunch.
    Can I have a drink of water?
    When are we having dinner?
- to receive, accept, or allow something to happen: 
    Here, have some more coffee.
    My mother's having visitors (to stay) next week.
    Let me have the book back next week.
    In the end they solved their problems and she had him back (= allowed him to come and live with her again).
    I looked in all the shops for Worcestershire sauce but there was none to be had (= none that anyone could obtain).
    I kept telling him that you were French but he wouldn't have it (= would not accept that it was true).
    I won't have those kids running all over my flowerbeds (= I refuse to allow them to do this).
- to cause something to happen or someone to do something: 
    We're having the house painted next month.
    If you wait, I'll have someone collect it for you.
    The film soon had us crying.
    Gus will have it working in no time.
    She had her parents down (= invited them to stay) for a week in the summer.
    We had the boat out (= went out in the boat) for the first time this week.
    We often have friends over/round (= invite them to come) on a Saturday night.
- to suffer something that someone does to you: 
    She had her car stolen (= it was stolen) last week.
- to experience something: 
    We're having a wonderful time here in Venice.
    We didn't have any difficulty/problem finding the house.
    He hasn't been having much luck recently.
- to give birth to a baby: 
    Elaine had a baby girl yesterday.
    My mother had me at home.
- to be pregnant: 
    I hear his wife's having a baby.
- to have sex with someone: 
    He asked me how many men I'd had.
- to need to or be forced: 
    I have to go to San Francisco tomorrow on business.
    What time do you have to be there?
    Do we have to finish this today?
    We'll have to start keeping detailed records.
    Jackie's ill so they've had to change their plans.
- used to say that something must be true: 
    That total has to be right - I've checked it twice.
idioms:
 and have done with it
 a good time was had by all
 have it in you
 have it in for sb
 have it off
 have it out with sb
 have nothing on sb or sth
 not have any of it
phrasal verbs:
 have sb on
 have (got) sth on
 have sth out
 have sb up

my /maɪ/
- of or belonging to me (= the speaker or writer): 
    my parents
    my feet
    my name
    my jacket
    It wasn't my fault.
    She was somewhat surprised at my asking (= that I asked) for the book to be returned.
- used to emphasize that something belongs to or is connected with me and no one else: 
    I want my own car.
    It was my own decision.
    This cake is all my own work (= I made it without help).
- used in front of a noun as a way of expressing love or as a polite or humorous form of address: 
    My darling!
    Do you want any help, my dear?
- relating to a part of some websites where you can choose to see only the information that is important to you
- used to express surprise or pleasure: 
    My, what delicious food!
    My, oh, my, what a busy day!

just /dʒʌst/
- now, very soon, or very recently: 
    "Where are you, Jim?" "I'm just coming."
    I'll just finish this, then we can go.
    He'd just got into the bath when the phone rang.
    The children arrived at school just as (= at the same moment as) the bell was ringing.
    The doctor will be with you in just a minute/moment/second (= very soon).
    It's just after/past (UK also gone) ten o'clock.
- a very short time ago: 
    Who was that at the door just now?
- at the present time: 
    John's in the bath just now - can he call you back?
- exactly or equally: 
    This carpet would be just right for the dining room.
    The twins look just like each other.
    Things turned out just as I expected.
    You've got just as many toys as your brother.
    Thank you, it's just what I've always wanted.
    I can't help you just now/yet.
    Just then, the lights went out.
    I can just imagine Sophie as a police officer.
    That dress is just you (= suits you very well).
- only; simply: 
    "Would you like another drink?" "OK, just one more."
    It was just a joke.
    His daughter's just a baby/just a few weeks old.
    We'll just have to (= the only thing we can do is) wait and see what happens.
    She lives just down the road (= very near).
    Just because you're older than me doesn't mean you can tell me what to do.
- used to make a statement or order stronger: 
    He just won't do as he's told.
    It's just too expensive.
- used to reduce the force of a statement and to suggest that it is not very important: 
    Can I just borrow the scissors for a second?
    I just wanted to ask you if you're free this afternoon.
- almost not or almost: 
    We arrived at the airport just in time to catch the plane.
    This dress (only) just fits.
    "Can you see the stage?" "Yes, only just/just about."
    I've just about finished painting the living room.
- If something is just possible, there is a slight chance that it will happen: 
    It's just possible that we might be going away that weekend.
- very; completely: 
    It's just dreadful what happened to her.
- fair; morally correct: 
    The judge's sentence was perfectly just in the circumstances.
    I don't really think he had just cause to complain.
- people who behave in a morally correct way
idioms:
 isn't it/aren't they just?
 it's just one of those things
 just a minute/moment/second
 (it's) just as well (that)
 just like that
 just my luck!
 (I'm) just saying
 might just as well
 get your just deserts

not /nɒt/
- used to form a negative phrase after verbs like "be", "can", "have", "will", "must", etc., usually used in the short form "n't" in speech: 
    He's not fat!
    I won't tell her.
    I can't go.
    Don't you like her?
    It isn't hard (= it is easy).
    I'm just not interested.
    He's not bad-looking (= he is fairly attractive).
    He's not as tall as his father.
- used to give the next word or group of words a negative meaning: 
    I told you not to do that.
    I like most vegetables but not cabbage.
    "Come and play, Dad." "Not now, Jamie."
    It was Yuko who said that, not Richard.
- used after verbs like "be afraid", "hope", "suspect", etc. in short, negative replies: 
    "Is he coming with us?" "I hope not."
    "Are you done?" "I'm afraid not."
- used to say what the situation will be if something does not happen: 
    I hope to see you there but, if not, I'll call you.
- used to express the possibility that something might not happen: 
    Are you going to reply or not?
    I still don't know whether she's coming or not.
- sometimes used at the end of a statement to show that you did not mean what you have said: 
    That was the best meal I've ever had - not!
idioms:
 not all that
 not at all
 not be up to much
 not that

do /də/
do | did | done
- used with another verb to form questions and negative sentences, including negative orders, and sometimes in affirmative sentences for reasons of style: 
    Where do you work?
    Why did you do that?
    Why don't we have lunch together on Friday?
    Doesn't Matthew look old these days?
    "Didn't you realize she was deaf?" "No I didn't."/"Of course I did."
    Not only did I speak to her, I even got her autograph!
    Never did I hear such a terrible noise.
    Don't (you) speak to me like that!
    Don't let's argue about it (= let's not argue about it).
    So quietly did she speak (= she spoke so quietly) that I could scarcely hear her.
    Little does he know (= he knows nothing about it), but we're flying to Geneva next weekend to celebrate his birthday.
    "I want two chocolate bars and an ice cream." "Do you now/indeed? (= that is surprising or unreasonable)."
- used instead of the main verb in questions that are added to the end of a sentence to check information: 
    You met him at our party, didn't you?
    You don't understand the question, do you?
- used instead of the main verb in questions that are added to the end of a sentence as a way of expressing surprise: 
    So Susannah and May finally got married, did they?
- used to avoid repeating a verb or verb phrase: 
    She runs much faster than he does.
    Maria looks much healthier than she did.
    "I don't like intense heat." "Neither/Nor do I."
    "I hate intense heat." "So do I."
    "You left your umbrella." "So I did. I'm so forgetful these days."
    "Would you mind tidying up the kitchen?" "I already have done."
    "May I join you?" "Please do!"
    "Who said that?" "I did."
    "Tilly speaks fluent Japanese." "Does she really?"
    "I thought I'd take a day off school today." "Oh no you don't (= I'm not going to let you do that)!"
- used to give extra force to the main verb: 
    "Can I buy stamps here?" "Well, we do sell them, but we don't have any at the moment."
    Do shut up, Georgia, and get on with your homework.
    Do write and let me know how you're getting on.
    He cooks a lot does Alex. He does far more than me.
- to perform, take part in, or achieve something: 
    That was a really stupid thing to do.
    What are you doing over the weekend?
    The only thing we can do now is wait and see what happens.
    Why were you sent to see the headmaster? What have you done now?
    Why were you sent to the principal's office? What did you do now?
    You should be able to do it by yourself/on your own.
    What have you done (= made happen) to her?
    What did you do (= make happen) to her?
    What (on earth) were you doing in the library (= why were you there) at two o'clock in the morning?
    What are these toys doing here? (= Why are they here?)
    What do you do (for a living)? (= What is your job?)
    What can I do for you? (= How can I help you?)
    What have you done with (= where have you put) my coat?
    What did you do with (= where did you put) my coat?
    She just hasn't known what to do with herself (= how to keep herself busy) since she retired.
- to take action to deal with something: 
    It's a global problem - what can individuals do about it?
- to treat someone well or badly
- to act or take action: 
    Stop arguing with me, Daryl, and do as you're told!
    She told me not to ask any questions, just to do as she did.
    "Was it wrong of me to go to the police?" "Oh no, I'm sure you did right/did the right thing."
    You'd do well to take some professional advice on this matter.
- connected with: 
    "Why did you want to talk to me?" "Well, it's to do with a complaint that's been made about your work."
    "But I didn't have any money." "What does that have to do with it? You still shouldn't have taken my wallet without asking me."
    She refused to have anything (more) to do with him after he was arrested for drinking and driving.
    "I thought I should tell you I saw your son smoking today." "Mind your own business! What my son does has nothing to do with you!"
- to deal with or be responsible for something: 
    Lucia is going to do the publicity for the school play.
    If they ask any awkward questions, just let me do the talking.
- to study a subject: 
    Diane did anthropology at university.
- to solve or find the answer to something: 
    to do a puzzle
    I've never been able to do crosswords.
- to make, produce, or create something: 
    I can't go out tonight - I've got to do my history paper.
    Can you do me 20 photocopies of this report/do 20 photocopies of this report for me?
- If you say that you have done with something or someone, or have done performing a particular action, you mean that you have finished what you were doing with something or someone, or what you were saying to someone, or that you have finished the action: 
    Have you done with those scissors yet?
    Where are you going? I haven't done with you yet (= I am still talking to you).
    I haven't done talking to you yet.
- to clean something, or make something look neat and attractive: 
    I cooked the dinner so you can do (= wash) the dishes.
    do your hair/make-up/nails
    I want to do (= clean) the living room this afternoon.
- to arrange something: 
    You've done those flowers beautifully.
    Can anyone here do (= tie) bow-ties?
- to travel a particular distance or to travel at a particular speed: 
    It's an old car and it's done over 80,000 miles.
    My new car does 50 miles to the gallon (= uses one gallon of fuel to travel 50 miles)
    He was caught doing 80 miles an hour.
- to complete a journey: 
    We did the journey to Boston in five hours.
- to be acceptable, suitable, or enough: 
    Will this room do or would you prefer one with a shower?
    This kind of behaviour just won't do.
    It doesn't do to criticize your parents.
    I don't have any grapefruit juice, but I've got some orange juice. Will that do (you)?
    "Is that enough potato, or would you like some more?" "That'll do (= be enough for) me, thanks."
- to provide or sell something, or to cause someone to have something: 
    They are doing a special offer - three for the price of two.
    Do you do travel insurance as well as flights?
    The bar only does food at lunchtimes, not in the evenings.
- to cook or prepare food: 
    Who's doing the food for your party?
    I'll do you some scrambled eggs.
- to develop or continue with the stated amount of success: 
    How is Mary doing in her new job/school?
    Both the new mother and her baby are doing very well.
    Are your roses doing all right this year?
    Many small businesses are doing badly because of the economic situation.
    I did pretty well when I traded in my car - they gave me a good price for it.
    Alexa has done well for herself (= has achieved great personal success), getting such a highly paid job.
- to perform a play or to play the part of a character: 
    The children are doing a play at the end of term.
    She's done all the important Shakespearean roles except for Lady Macbeth.
    I hope she doesn't do a Helen (= do what Helen did) and get divorced six months after her wedding.
- to visit the interesting places in a town or country, or to look around an interesting place: 
    We didn't get to do Nice when we were in France.
- to enter a building illegally and steal from it: 
    Our house was done while we were away.
- to cheat someone: 
    $50 for that old bike! You've been done!
    He did me for a thousand quid for that car.
- to spend time in prison: 
    He did three years for his part in the robbery.
    If you're not careful you'll end up doing time again.
- to punish someone: 
    If you mess with me again, I'll do you good and proper.
    I got done (= stopped by the police) for speeding on my way home last night.
- to take an illegal drug: 
    How long have you been doing heroin?
    I don't do drugs.
- to be happening: 
    This town is so boring in the evening - there's never anything doing.
- a way of treating people: 
    There are no special privileges for the managers - we believe in fair dos all round (= equal treatment for everyone) in this company.
    It's a poor do (= a bad/unfair situation) when a so-called developed country can't even provide homes for all its citizens.
- a party or other social event: 
    Colin's having a bit of a do for his 50th birthday.
    It was one of those dos where nobody really knew each other.
- a 
hairdo 
- the first note of the sol-fa musical scale: 
    Would you sing me a do, please?
idioms:
 can't be doing with sth
 do as you would be done by
 do it
 do something, nothing, etc. for/to sb
 that does it!
 that will never do!
 that'll do!
 that's done it!
 what's done is done
phrasal verbs:
 do away with sth
 do away with sb
 do sb down
 do for sb/sth
 do sb in
 do yourself in
 do sth out
 do sb out of sth
 do sb over
 do sth over
 do (sth) up
 do sth up
 do without (sth)

be strong /biː/
be | being | was | were | been
- used to say something about a person, thing, or state, to show a permanent or temporary quality, state, job, etc.: 
    He is rich.
    It's cold today.
    I'm Andy.
    That's all for now.
    What do you want to be (= what job do you want to do) when you grow up?
    These books are (= cost) $3 each.
    Being afraid of the dark, she always slept with the light on.
    Never having been ill himself, he wasn't a sympathetic listener.
    Be quiet!
    The problem is deciding what to do.
    The hardest part will be to find a replacement.
    The general feeling is that she should be asked to leave.
    It's not that I don't like her - it's just that we rarely agree on anything!
- used to show the position of a person or thing in space or time: 
    The food was already on the table.
    Is anyone there?
    The meeting is now (= will happen) next Tuesday.
    There's a hair in my soup.
- used to show what something is made of: 
    Is this plate pure gold?
- used to say that someone should or must do something: 
    You're to sit in the corner and keep quiet.
    Their mother said they were not to (= not allowed to) play near the river.
    There's no money left - what are we to do?
- used to show that something will happen in the future: 
    We are to (= we are going to) visit Australia in the spring.
    She was never to see (= she never saw) her brother again.
- used in conditional sentences to say what might happen: 
    If I were to refuse they'd be very annoyed.
    Were I to refuse they'd be very annoyed.
- used to say what can happen: 
    The exhibition of modern prints is currently to be seen at the City Gallery.
- to exist or live: 
    Such terrible suffering should never be.
    By the time the letter reached them their sister had ceased to be (= had died).
- used with the present participle of other verbs to describe actions that are or were still continuing: 
    I'm still eating.
    She's studying to be a lawyer.
    The audience clearly wasn't enjoying the show.
    You're always complaining.
    I'll be coming back (= I plan to come back) on Tuesday.
- used with the past participle of other verbs to form the passive: 
    I'd like to go but I haven't been asked.
    Troublemakers are encouraged to leave.
    A body has been discovered by the police.
phrasal verbs:
 be in for sth

on /ɒn/
- used to show that something is in a position above something else and touching it, or that something is moving into such a position: 
    Look at all the books on your desk!
    Ow, you're standing on my foot!
    Your suitcase is on top of the wardrobe.
    They live in that old house on the hill.
    I got on my bike and left.
- covering the surface of, being held by, or connected to something: 
    There's blood on your shirt.
    Which finger do you wear your ring on?
    Can you stand on your head?
    We could hang this picture on the wall next to the door.
    Dogs should be kept on their leashes at all times.
    We've just moved house and we're not on the phone (= not connected to the phone service) yet.
- used to show when something happens: 
    Hair salons don't usually open on Sundays.
    What are you doing on Friday?
    My birthday's on 30 May.
    Would you mind telling me what you were doing on the afternoon of Friday the 13th of March?
    The bells in the clock tower ring every hour on the hour (= at exactly one o'clock, two o'clock, etc.).
    On a clear day you can see the mountains from here.
    She was dead on arrival (= dead when she arrived) at the hospital.
    Please leave your key at the reception desk on your departure from (= when you leave) the hotel.
- used to show where something has been written, printed, or drawn: 
    Which page is that curry recipe on?
    His initials were engraved on the back of his watch.
    What's on the menu tonight? (= What food is available?)
- used for showing some methods of travelling: 
    I love travelling on trains.
    She's coming in on the 5.30 bus.
    We went to France on the ferry.
    It'd be quicker to get there on foot.
    two figures on horseback
- used to show that a condition or process is being experienced: 
    He accidentally set his bed on fire.
    Max's on holiday this week.
    I often get carsick when I'm on a long journey.
    Crime is on the increase (= is increasing) again.
    Their flights to Paris are on special offer at the moment.
    I'll be away on a training course next week.
- used to show the form in which something is recorded or performed: 
    How much data can you store on the flash drive?
    When's the movie coming out on DVD?
    I was really embarrassed the first time I saw myself on film.
    What's on TV tonight?
    I wish there was more jazz on the radio.
- used to show what causes pain or injury as a result of being touched: 
    I hit my head on the shelf as I was standing up.
    Be careful not to cut yourself on that knife.
- to or towards: 
    Our house is the first on the left after the post office.
    The attack on the village lasted all night.
    I wish you wouldn't sneak up on me like that!
- relating to: 
    a book on pregnancy
    Her talk is on Italian women's literature.
    The minister has refused to comment on the allegations.
    Criticism has no effect on him.
    Do the police have anything on you (= do they have any information about you that can be used against you)?
- used to show something for which a payment is made: 
    He spent €180 on a hat.
    I've wasted a lot of money on this car.
    We made a big profit on that deal.
    How much interest are you paying on the loan?
- used to show a person or thing that is necessary for something to happen or that is the origin of something: 
    We're relying on you.
    I might come - it depends on Andrew.
    Most children remain dependent on their parents while they are at university.
    His latest movie is based on a fairy tale.
- used to show when someone is involved or taking part in something: 
    I'm working on a new book.
    "Where had we got up to?" "We were on page 42."
- used to show what is providing financial support or an income: 
    I only have $70 a week to live on at the moment.
    He retired on a generous pension from the company.
    She's on (= earning) £25,000 a year.
- used to show something that is used as food, fuel, or a drug: 
    What do mice live on?
    Does this radio run on batteries?
    Is he on drugs?
- next to or along the side of: 
    It's a small town on the Mississippi River.
    Our house was on Sturton Street.
    Strasbourg is on the border of France and Germany.
- used to show when someone is a member of a group or organization: 
    Have you ever served on a jury?
    There are no women on the committee.
    How many people are on your staff?
    She's a researcher on a women's magazine.
- used when referring to a tool, instrument, or system that is used to do something: 
    I do all my household accounts on the computer.
    Chris is on drums and Mike's on bass guitar.
    I'm on (= talking on) the phone.
- used to show when something is repeated one or more times: 
    The government suffered defeat on defeat in the local elections.
    Wave on wave of refugees has crossed the border to escape the fighting.
- used when making a comparison: 
    That's my final offer, and I can't improve on it.
    The manufacturer has never improved on the earliest model of the car.
    The productivity figures are down/up on last week's.
- used to show when someone has something in a pocket or in a bag that they are carrying: 
    Do you have a spare pen on you?
    I don't have my driving licence on me.
- happening after and usually because of: 
    Acting on information given to them anonymously, the police arrested him.
    He inherited a quarter of a million pounds on his mother's death.
    On their return they discovered that their house had been broken into.
- used to show who is paying for something: 
    Dinner meal is on me.
    She had her operation done on the National Health Service.
- used to show who suffers when something does not operate as it should: 
    The phone suddenly went dead on me.
    Their car broke down on them on the way home.
- used to show the number of points a person or team has in a competition: 
    Clive's team is on five points while Joan's is on seven.
- on your body or someone's body: 
    It's very cold so put a coat on.
    She wanders around the house with nothing on.
    Can you remember what he had on (= was wearing)?
    I tried on a few jackets, but none of them looked nice.
- covering the surface of something or connected to something: 
    Screw the lid on tightly.
    Surgeons managed to sew the finger back on.
- used to show when something is operating or starting to operate: 
    Could you switch on the radio?
    Would you turn the TV on?
    You left the bedroom light on.
- continuing or not stopping: 
    If her phone's busy, keep on trying.
    Stop talking and get on with your work.
    If Elise would just hang on (= wait) a little longer she'd definitely get the promotion.
    The noise just went on and on (= continued for a long time), and I thought it would never stop.
- into a bus, train, plane, etc., or in the correct position to start using some other method of travelling: 
    The train suddenly started moving as I was getting on.
    Her horse galloped off as soon as she was on.
- performing: 
    Hurry up with the make-up - I'm on in ten minutes.
    The audience cheered as the band came on (= came onto the stage).
- continuing forward in time or space: 
    They never spoke to each other from that day on (= after that day).
    What are you doing later on?
    When you're done with it, would you pass it on to Paul?
    Move on, please, and let the ambulance through.
    You cycle on and I'll meet you there.
- happening or planned: 
    Is the party still on for tomorrow?
    I'm busy tomorrow, but I've got nothing on the day after.
    I've got a lot on at the moment.
    Food had to be rationed when the war was on.
    Are there any good movies on (= being shown) this week?
- used when talking about the position of one thing compared with the position of another: 
    It's amazing nobody was injured because the two buses crashed head on (= the front parts of the buses hit each other).
    The bike hit our car side on (= hit the side of the car rather than the front or back).
    It would be easier to get the bookcase through the doorway if we turned it sideways on (= turned it so that one of its sides is at the front).
idioms:
 on it
 on the go
 be on sb
 be not on
 be on about
 be/go on at sb
 on and off
 you're on!

your strong /jɔːr/
- belonging or relating to the person or group of people being spoken or written to: 
    Is this your bag?
    It's not your fault.
    Your mother is driving me crazy.
    What's your problem?
- belonging or relating to people generally: 
    Of course you want the best for your children.
    Garlic is good for your blood.
- said before a typical example of something is given: 
    This isn't your usual science fiction novel, but then Brinkworth isn't exactly your typical author.

was strong /wɒz/
- past simple of
be 

we strong /wiː/
- used as the subject of a verb to refer to a group including the speaker and at least one other person: 
    Can we all go to the swimming pool this afternoon?
    If you don't hurry up we'll be late.
- used by a speaker or a writer to refer to themselves and the people listening or reading: 
    In today's lecture, we will be exploring the world economic situation.
- used as the subject of a verb to refer to all people, especially when considered as a group: 
    This planet on which we all live should be cherished and not exploited.
- used as the subject of a verb to mean "you", especially when talking to a child or someone who is ill: 
    We don't want to be late for school, do we?
    "How are we this morning, Mrs Flanagan?" said the doctor.
- used by a queen or king when speaking officially to mean "I"

with /wɪð/
- used to say that people or things are in a place together or are doing something together: 
    I was with Sylvia at the time.
    He lives with his grandmother.
    He's impossible to work with.
    I'm going to France with a couple of friends.
    Ingrid Bergman starred with Humphrey Bogart in the movie "Casablanca".
    I left my books with Sandra.
    Ice cream with your apple pie?
    Mix the butter with the sugar and then add the egg.
    I'll be with you (= I will give you my attention) in a second.
    She's staying with her parents (= at their house) for a few months.
    He's been with the department (= working in it) since 2010.
- using something: 
    He was shot at close range with a pistol.
    She wiped her lipstick off with a tissue.
    Join the two pieces together with glue.
    Please handle this package with care.
    They set up a business with the help of a bank loan.
- having or including something: 
    a tall woman with dark hair
    He's married with three children.
    They were divided into two groups, with no girls in one group and no boys in the other.
    He spoke with a soft Irish accent.
    We're an international company with offices in Paris, New York, and Sydney.
    Two coffees please, one with milk and one without.
    He arrived in Los Angeles with nothing but the clothes he was wearing.
    He woke up with a terrible headache.
    I was second in the race with a time of 14.2 seconds.
    With a bit of luck, we should be back in time for dinner.
    Both their children graduated with degrees in economics.
- used at the beginning of various phrases written at the end of a letter: 
    With best wishes from Charles.
    With love, Roberta.
- including: 
    With your contribution, that makes a total of £45.
- relating to or in the case of a person or thing: 
    How are things with you?
    Russia has just drawn up a trade agreement with Norway.
    This hasn't got anything to do with you (= this is not something you should be interested in).
    The government's policies have not been popular with (= among) the voters.
    He's very careless with his money.
    She talked a lot about her relationship with Charlotte.
- used to show what is on or in something: 
    She laid the table with the best china.
    Her blouse was spattered with blood.
    The room was littered with toys.
    The trucks were laden with food and medicine.
    She filled the jug up with cream.
- because of or caused by someone or something: 
    He winced with pain.
    I was trembling with fear.
    She's been at home with a bad cold for the past week.
    I can't work with all that noise going on.
    Hopes were dashed in the war-torn capital with the news that no aid would be arriving that week.
    With exams approaching, it's a good idea to review your class notes.
    (What) with all the excitement and confusion, I forgot to say goodbye to her.
- against something: 
    I ended up having an argument with her.
    She has fought a constant battle with depression throughout her career.
    The two countries went to war with one another over oil prices.
    A truck had collided with a car.
- used with words showing separation: 
    I'd rather not part with my cash.
    He decided to put his failed marriage behind him and make a clean break with the past.
- and, or followed by: 
    I'd like a steak and fries with apple pie for dessert.
    $200 is payable immediately with a further $100 payable on delivery.
- used in comparisons: 
    I have nothing in common with my brother.
    This cake's very light compared with the last one you made.
- supporting someone or something: 
    If you want to go for a promotion, I'll be with you all the way.
    You have to decide where you stand on this issue - you're either with me or against me.
- in the same direction as something: 
    The wind was with me on the home stretch and I ran well.
- at the same rate or time as something: 
    This wine will improve with age.
    Stopping distances for cars vary with the speed they are travelling at.
- to understand what someone is saying: 
    You look puzzled - are you with me?
    I'm sorry, I'm not with you.
- despite something: 
    With all her faults, she's still a really good friend.
- used to express a wish or instruction: 
    Away with you! (= Go away!)
    Off to bed with you! (= Go to bed!)
    On with the show! (= Let it continue.)
    Down with school! (= We don't want/like it.)
idioms:
 with that

but strong /bʌt/
- used to introduce an added statement, usually something that is different from what you have said before: 
    She's very hard-working but not very imaginative.
    This is not caused by evil, but by simple ignorance.
    The play's good, but not that good - I've seen better.
    I'm sorry, but I think you're wrong when you say she did it deliberately.
    Call me old-fashioned, but I like handwritten letters.
    I can understand his unhappiness. But to attempt suicide!
    "She said she's leaving." "But why?"
    You can invite Keith to the party, but please don't ask that friend of his.
    We must not complain about the problem, but (= instead we must) help to put it right.
    She's not a painter but a writer (= she is a writer, not a painter).
    She's not only a painter but also a writer (= she is both).
    He said he hadn't been there, but then (= it is not surprising that) he would say that.
    I think it's true, but then (= it should be understood that), I'm no expert.
- except: 
    Eventually, all but one of them promised to come to his birthday party.
    He's anything but violent (= not violent in any way).
    I would have crashed the car but for your warning.
    This is the last episode but one (= one before the last) of the series.
    She's one of those guests who does nothing but complain.
    This car has been nothing but trouble - it's always breaking down!
- used to give force to a statement: 
    Everyone, but everyone, will be there.
- only; just: 
    She's but a young girl!
- used to emphasize that something will happen even if the person you are talking to does not want it to: 
    We're going to visit your aunt tomorrow and there'll be no buts about it.

all /ɔːl/
- every one (of), or the complete amount or number (of), or the whole (of): 
    All animals have to eat in order to live.
    She has four children, all under the age of five.
    The cast all lined up on stage to take their bow.
    Have you drunk all (of) the milk?
    Have you drunk it all?
    All the eggs got broken.
    Now the money's all mine!
    All my friends agree.
    I've been trying all day/week to contact you.
    She had £2,000 under the bed and the thieves took it all.
    I had to use all my powers of persuasion to get her to agree.
    Remember all that trouble we had with the police last year?
    So long as he's happy - that's all that matters (= the most important thing).
    All (= the only thing) I need is a roof over my head and a decent meal.
    The judge cleared the court of all but (= everyone except) herself and the witness.
    Why do you get so angry with me all the time (= very often)?
    It's very kind of you to come all the way to meet me.
- considering all the different parts of the situation together: 
    All in all, I think you've done very well.
- used when you make a comment or criticism, so that it seems less severe or is less likely to offend someone: 
    All I'm saying is I think the end part could have been a little shorter.
    We should do our best, that's all I'm saying.
- the only and small amount or number of something you have: 
    Her parents died when she was a baby, so I was all the family she ever had.
- completely: 
    The cake was all eaten last night.
    The downstairs rooms were painted all in greens and blues.
    The baby got food all over her dress.
    Don't let her get you all upset.
    She's been all over town looking for you.
    I've been hearing all about your weekend!
    We had a difficult time but it's all over now.
    The princess lived all alone/by herself in the middle of the forest.
- used after a number to mean that both teams or players in a game have equal points: 
    The score at half-time was still four all.
- almost: 
    The game was all but over by the time we arrived.
    I'd all but given up on you.
- in every way: 
    It was a ghastly business all round.
    It's been a good day all around.
- even or much better, stronger, more exciting, etc.: 
    She felt all the better for the drink.
    I've lost ten pounds and I feel all the fitter for it.
- used in front of many nouns to form adjectives meaning "every", "every type of", or "the whole of" that particular thing: 
    an all-night bar (= a bar that is open for the whole night)
- used in front of many adjectives and present participles to mean "everything" or "everyone": 
    an all-inclusive price
    all-conquering armies
- used in front of many nouns and adjectives to mean "completely": 
    all-cotton socks (= socks that are made completely of cotton)
    When cooking the sauce, don't forget that all-important (= most or very important) ingredient, fresh basil.
    Do you believe in an all-powerful god (= one with unlimited power)?
idioms:
 all good things (must) come to an end
 all of sth
 be all (that) you can do
 that's all I/you/we need!
 be all in
 be all over it 
 be sb all over
 be all go
 be not all there
 go all out

well /wel/
well | better | best
- in a good way, to a high or satisfactory standard: 
    The documentary presented both sides of the problem very well.
    The concert was advertised well enough but ticket sales were poor.
    a well-cut suit
    a well-paid job
    Her points were well put (= expressed in a good or intelligent way).
    His point about the need to reduce waste was well taken (= it was accepted as a good criticism).
    They took two hours to discuss the plans and considered it time well spent (= it had been a useful discussion).
    I can't do it as well as Marie can.
- very much, to a great degree, or completely: 
    Knead the dough well, then divide it into four pieces.
    He could well imagine how much his promise was going to cost him.
    I can't catch the bus - there are no buses after midnight, as you well know.
    He plays the piano well enough (= to a satisfactory standard).
- used to emphasize some prepositions: 
    The results are well above/below what we expected.
    Keep well away from the edge of the cliff.
    It cost well over £100.
    Stand well clear of the doors!
- used to emphasize some adjectives: 
    The police are well aware of the situation.
    The museum is well worth a visit.
    Some machines look more like cheap, plastic toys - leave these well alone.
- very: 
    The film was well good.
    Watch out for those two - they're well hard (= strong and willing to use violence).
- with good reason: 
    She might well be the best person to ask.
    I can't very well (= it would not be acceptable to) refuse their generous offer.
- in addition (to): 
    Invite Emily - and Scott as well.
    I want to visit Andrew as well as Martin.
- healthy; not ill: 
    He hasn't been very well lately.
    When she came home from school she really didn't look well.
    I'm sorry you're ill - I hope you get well soon.
    They sent a get well card.
- used to introduce something you are going to say, often to show surprise, doubt, slight disagreement, or anger, or to continue a story: 
    Well, what shall we do now?
    Well now/then, how are we going to arrange things?
    "Who was that?" "Well, I can't remember her name."
    "He's decided to give up his job and move to Seattle with her." "Well, well - that's what love does for you."
    Well, really, that was thoughtless of him!
    Well? What did you do next?
    Well, after that we went camping in the mountains.
    Well/Oh well, it doesn't matter - I can always buy another one.
    Very well, if you insist I'll meet him next week.
- a deep hole in the ground from which you can get water, oil, or gas
- (of liquid) to appear on the surface of something or come slowly out from somewhere: 
    Dirty water welled (up) out of the damaged pipe.
    As she read the letter tears welled up in her eyes.
    Conflicting emotions welled up in his heart.
- short form of we will: 
    We'll do better next time, I'm sure.
idioms:
 all is well
 all very well
 be all very well
 be just as well
 may/might as well
 well and truly
 well away
 well done
 well in (with)
 well out of sth

he strong /hiː/
- used as the subject of a verb to refer to a man, boy, or male animal that has already been mentioned: 
    Don't ask Andrew, he won't know.
    There's no need to be frightened - he's a very friendly dog.
- used to refer to a person whose sex is not known: 
    The modern traveller can go where he likes.
    As soon as the baby is born, he'll start to take an interest in the world around him.
- a male: 
    How can you tell whether the fish is a he or a she?

about /əˈbaʊt/
- on the subject of, or connected with: 
    What's that book about?
    a film about the Spanish Civil War
    We were talking/laughing about Sophie.
    He's always (going) on about what a great job he's got.
    I'm worried about David.
    I really don't know what all the fuss is about.
    I wish you'd do something about (= take action to solve the problem of) your bedroom - it's a real mess.
    Could you make me a coffee too while you're about it (= while you are making one for yourself)?
    What didn't you like about the play?
    There's something about her attitude that worries me.
    There's something special about him (= in his character).
    "Is that your car?" "Yes, what about it?" (= Why are you asking me?)
- positioned around a place, often without a clear purpose or order: 
    Their belongings were flung about the room.
- in a particular place: 
    Do you have such a thing as a pen about you/your person? (= Do you have a pen?)
- a little more or less than the stated number or amount: 
    about six feet tall
    about two months ago
    "What time are you leaving work today?" "About five."
- almost: 
    We're about ready to leave.
    Well, I think that's about it for now (= we have almost finished what we are doing for the present).
- in many different directions: 
    They heard someone moving about outside.
    I've been running about all morning trying to find you.
- positioned around a place, often without a clear purpose or order: 
    She always leaves her clothes lying about on the floor.
- in or near a place: 
    Is John about (= somewhere near)?
    There's a lot of flu about (= many people have it) at the moment.
- to be going to do something very soon: 
    I was about to leave when Mark arrived.
    She looked as if she was about to cry.
idioms:
 how/what about...?

right /raɪt/
- correct: 
    You got three answers right and two wrong.
    I set the clock to the right time.
    "Is that Ms Kramer?" "Yes, that's right."
    Am I right in thinking (= is it true) that you will be at the conference?
    You're right to be annoyed - you've been treated very badly.
    You must put matters right (= make the situation better) by telling the truth.
- If you are right about something or someone, you are correct in your judgment or statement about it, him, or her: 
    You were right about Pete - he's a real troublemaker.
- suitable or correct, or as it should be: 
    He's the right person for the job.
    I think you've made the right decision.
    The temperature of the swimming pool was just right (= exactly as I wanted it).
    That hat looks just right on you.
    He thought the time was right to let his intentions be known.
- used to refer to a person who is considered to be socially important or a place that such people go to: 
    She knows all the right people.
    He likes to be seen in the right clubs and restaurants.
- in the correct position: 
    The lid has to go on the right way round or it won't fit.
    Keep the bottle the right way up.
- considered fair or morally acceptable by most people: 
    I don't believe they should have put him in prison. It isn't right.
    It's not right to criticize people behind their back.
    It is only (= completely) right that men and women should be paid the same for doing the same work.
- healthy, or working correctly: 
    I haven't felt right since I ate that meal last night.
    Something isn't quite right with the brakes on your bike.
- used for emphasizing when something is bad: 
    He's a right idiot.
    His house is a right mess.
- on or towards the side of your body that is to the east when you are facing north: 
    Most people write with their right hand.
    He likes to sleep on the right side of the bed.
- on or towards the side of your body that is to the east when you are facing north: 
    Turn/Go right (= take the road on the right) at the first traffic lights.
- exactly or all the way: 
    I've got a pimple right on the end of my nose.
    They built a row of hotels right along the sea-front.
- used for emphasis: 
    The car ran right (= completely) out of fuel.
    She walked right (= all the way) past me without noticing me.
    I'll be right back/I'll be right with you (= I will return very soon).
- immediately: 
    You'd better leave right now.
- at the present time: 
    We're very busy right now.
- used as part of the title of particular people, such as bishops and some members of Parliament: 
    the Right Honourable Diane Abbott, MP
- correctly: 
    Why does he never do anything right?
- If something goes right, it is successful or happens in a way that you hoped it would: 
    Things haven't been going right for me these past few months.
- the right side: 
    English is written and read from left to right.
    King's Avenue is the first right (= the first road on the right side).
    In this photo, my wife is the woman standing on/to my right.
    I took/made (informal hung) a right (= turned into the next road on the right side) after crossing the bridge.
- political parties or people that have traditional opinions, and that believe in low taxes, property, and industry being privately owned, and less help for the poor: 
    The right was/were in power after 1979.
    He's a man of the far (= extreme) right.
- what is considered to be morally good or acceptable: 
    Your conscience should tell you the difference between right and wrong.
- If you are in the right, what you are doing is morally or legally correct.
- the fact that a person or animal can expect to be treated in a fair, morally acceptable, or legal way, or to have the things that are necessary for life: 
    She campaigned for women's rights during the 1960s.
    Everyone has a right to education.
    She has no more right to a company car than I have (= she does not deserve one more than I do).
    You're not my boss, so what right (= authority) do you have to tell me what to do?
    You have every right (= you have a good reason) to complain.
- If you are within your rights to do something, you are legally allowed to do it: 
    I think I'm quite within my rights to demand a full refund.
- legal controls over who is allowed to use a book or film: 
    He has acquired the film rights to the book (= he is allowed to make a film of the book).
- new shares in a particular company that have become available for people to buy who already own shares: 
    The company made a rights issue of one new share for every four held.
- to improve or correct something: 
    The company needs over a million dollars to set its finances to rights.
- used to express agreement with someone or to show that you have understood what someone has said: 
    "Johnny, you climb up first." "Right."
- said when you want to make a group of people notice you, especially so that you can start an activity: 
    Right, everyone. Could you all stop talking, and then we'll begin.
- said between parts of a story that you are telling, in order to make certain that people are paying attention and understanding: 
    So there I was right, middle of the night, right, and this guy came up to me...
- If you right a situation or a mistake, you make it better or correct it: 
    It's a terrible situation and we should right it as soon as possible.
- If a boat rights itself, it turns itself back to its correct position in the water: 
    The canoe will right itself if it capsizes.
idioms:
 be (as) right as rain
 be not (quite) right in the head
 be not in your right mind
 be on the right lines
 be on the right track
 give your right arm
 in the right place at the right time
 press/push the right button(s)
 put/set sb right
 a right one
 the right stuff
 right behind sb
 right, left, and centre
 by right of
 by rights
 in your own right
 the rights and wrongs
 right you are!
 too right

get /ɡet/
get | present participle getting | past tense got | past participle got or US usually gotten
- to obtain, buy, or earn something: 
    He went to the shop to get some milk.
    I think she gets about £40,000 a year.
    We stopped on the way to get some breakfast.
    I managed to get all three suitcases for under $200.
    How much did he get for his car? (= How much money did he sell it for?)
    Where did you get your shoes from?
- to receive or be given something: 
    I got quite a surprise when I saw her with short hair.
    When did you get the news about Sam?
    I got a phone call from Phil last night.
    What grade did he get for the exam?
    I got the impression that they'd rather be alone.
    What did you get for your birthday?
    We don't get much snow (= it does not often snow) here.
    I managed to get a glimpse of him (= see him for a moment) through the crowds.
    If you get a moment (= have time available), could you help me fill in that form?
    She gets such pleasure from her garden.
    If you can get some time off work, we could finish the decorating.
    I can never get her to myself (= be alone with her) because she's always surrounded by people.
- to go somewhere and bring back someone or something: 
    Let me go get my glasses.
    Can I get you a drink?
- to take someone or something into your possession by force: 
    Have the police got the man who did it yet?
    Your cat got a bird this morning!
- to reach or arrive at a particular place: 
    We hadn't even got as far as London when the car broke down.
    What time does he normally get home (from work)?
    If you get to the restaurant before us, just wait at the bar.
- to reach a particular stage, condition, or time: 
    You earn loads of money if you get to the top in that profession.
    It got to Thursday and she still hadn't heard any news.
    I'm getting to the stage now where I just want to give up.
- to make progress or to improve: 
    She's taking flute lessons, but she really doesn't seem to be getting anywhere with it.
    It's been hard settling in, but I feel like I'm getting somewhere at last.
- to become ill with a disease, virus, etc.: 
    I got food poisoning at that cheap little seafood restaurant.
    Kids get all kinds of bugs at school.
- to become or start to be: 
    He gets really upset if you mention his baldness.
    Is your cold getting any better?
    Your coffee's getting cold.
    After a while you get used to all the noise.
    You're getting to be such a big boy, aren't you!
    How did you get to be a belly dancer?
- to start to go or move: 
    We'd better get moving or we'll be late.
- to cause something to happen, or cause someone or something to do something: 
    She had to get the kids ready for school.
    I'm trying to get this article finished by Thursday.
    We get our groceries delivered.
    Were you able to get the copy machine working?
    I can't get my computer to work!
- to persuade someone to do something: 
    Why don't you get Nicole to come to the party?
- to do something to something or someone without intending to or by accident: 
    He got his bag caught in the train doors as they were closing.
    I always get the two youngest sisters' names confused.
- sometimes used instead of "be" to form the passive: 
    I got shouted at by some idiot for walking past his house.
    They're getting married later this year.
    This window got broken.
- to move to a different place or into a different position: 
    I hit my head as I was getting into the car.
    Get out of here now or I'll call the police.
    The bed is too wide - we'll never get it through the door.
    Getting up the ladder was easy enough - it was coming down that was the problem.
    He got down on his knees and asked me to marry him!
- to travel somewhere in a train, bus, or other vehicle: 
    Shall we get a taxi to the station?
- to deal with or answer a ringing phone, knock on the door, etc.: 
    Hey, Ty, someone's at the door - would you get it, please?
- to have the chance to do something: 
    I never get to see her now that she works somewhere else.
- to understand or hear something: 
    I didn't get what he said because the music was so loud.
    I told that joke to Sophia, but she didn't get it.
- to prepare a meal: 
    I'll put the kids to bed while you're getting dinner ready.
- to pay for something: 
    Put your money away - I'll get these drinks.
- to confuse someone and make them completely unable to understand or explain: 
    Give him a technical question - that'll really get him!
- something that you say when you do not know the answer to a question: 
    "How many ounces in a kilo?" "You've got me there."
- to annoy someone: 
    It really gets to me the way we're expected to actually laugh at his pathetic jokes!
- to make someone feel strongly emotional and often cry: 
    That part in the film when he finds out that his daughter is alive - that always gets me!
- to hit someone, especially with a bullet or something thrown: 
    The bullet got her in the leg.
idioms:
 get away with murder
 get him, her, you, etc.!
 get it on
 get it together
 I/I've got this
 you/you've got this
phrasal verbs:
 get sth across
 get ahead
 get along
 get around
 get around (somewhere)
 get around sth
 get around to sth
 get at sb
 get at sth
 get away
 get away with sth
 get back
 get sb back
 get sth back
 get back to sb
 get back to sth
 get behind
 get beyond sth
 get by
 get sb down
 get sth down
 get sth down (sb)
 get down to sth
 get in
 get in/get into sth
 get sth in
 get sb in
 get in on sth
 get into sb
 get into sth
 get (sb) into sth
 get off
 get off (sth)
 get sth off
 get (sb) off
 get (sb) off (sth)
 get sth off (sth)
 get off on sth
 get off with sb
 get on
 get on (sth)
 get on to/onto sth
 get on with sth
 get out
 get (sb/sth) out
 get out of sth
 get sth out of sth
 get sth out of sb
 get over sth/sb
 get sth over with
 get past sb
 get past sth
 get round (somewhere)
 get round sb
 get round sth
 get round to sth
 get through
 get through sth
 get (sb) through sth
 get (sth) through (to sb)
 get to
 get to sb
 get together
 get up
 get (sb) up
 get sth up
 get yourself/sb up
 get up to sth

here /hɪər/
- in, at, or to this place: 
    I've lived here for about two years.
    I like it here.
    London is only 50 miles from here.
    Come here - I've got something to show you.
    How long are you over here (= in this country)?
- used at the beginning of a statement to introduce someone or something: 
    Here's Fiona - let me introduce you to her.
    Here's the book I said I'd lend you.
- used to show that someone has arrived or that something has started: 
    Here they are! We thought you'd never come!
    Here we are (= we have arrived) - I said it wouldn't take more than half an hour by car.
    Now that Christmas is here (= has begun), I might as well give up my diet.
- used to say that someone or something that is near you: 
    I don't know anything about this, but I'm sure my colleague here can help you.
    It says here (= in this piece of writing) that she was born in 1943.
- now: 
    Shall we break here and have a coffee?
    Where do we go/Where do we take it from here? (= What should we do next?)
- used when giving something to someone: 
    "Could you pass the sugar, please?" "Here you are."
    Here, try some of this - it's delicious!
idioms:
 the here and now
 here and there
 here goes!
 here today, gone tomorrow
 here we go
 here we go (again)
 here's to ...

out /aʊt/
- used to show movement away from the inside of a place or container: 
    She opened the window and stuck her head out.
    The bag broke and the apples fell out.
    I jumped out of bed and ran downstairs.
    He leaned out the window.
    He opened the drawer and took out a pair of socks.
    Get out!
    Out you go! (= Go out!)
    My secretary will see you out (= go with you to the door).
    Turn the trousers inside out (= put the inside on the outside).
- outside a building or room: 
    If you wait out here, we will call you when the doctor is ready.
    Danger! Keep out! (= Do not enter!)
    It's bitterly cold out, today.
- absent for a short time from the place where you live or work: 
    I came around to see you this morning, but you were out.
    Someone called while you were out.
- used to refer to a period of time when someone goes away from home for a social activity: 
    I can't go out tonight - I have work to do.
    Do you want to eat out (= eat in a restaurant) tonight?
    He asked me out (= asked me to go with him) to the cinema next week.
- used to refer to a time when someone is away from the main office in order to do a particular job: 
    The thieves were spotted by a postman out on his rounds (= as he was delivering the post).
    The police were out in force (= there were a lot of police) at the demonstration.
- In a library, if a book is out, it has been borrowed by someone: 
    Both copies of "Wuthering Heights" were out.
- to the point where something is removed or disappears: 
    The stain won't come out.
    Cross out any words that are not on the list.
    Never use water to put out fires in electrical equipment.
    Our time/money/patience ran out.
- used to say that no more of something is available: 
    We're nearly out of petrol.
    I'm running out of patience/time/money.
- (in sport) no longer able to play because your turn is over: 
    Two of the best players on the team were out after ten minutes.
    New Zealand were all out for 246 (= the team finished with a score of 246).
- (in politics) no longer able to govern because you have lost an election: 
    The Social Democrats were voted out after 15 years in power.
- to many people: 
    The teacher gave out test books to all the students.
    Greenpeace sent a letter out to all its supporters.
- spreading out from a central point over a wider area: 
    The police search party spread out across the fields.
- When a book, magazine, film, or musical recording is out, it is available to the public: 
    Is her new book out yet?
    The new movie comes out in August.
- able to be seen: 
    The stars are out tonight.
    The rain stopped and the sun came out (= appeared).
    In spring all the flowers came out (= their petals opened).
- used to make the meaning of a word stronger: 
    We walked all day and were tired out (= very tired) by the time we got home.
    It's up to you to sort this out (= deal with it completely).
- used with verbs describing sounds to emphasize the loudness of the sound: 
    He cried out in pain as he hit his head.
    Charlie Chaplin films always make me laugh out loud.
- a long distance away from land, a town, or your own country: 
    The fishing boats were out at sea for three days.
    They live out in the country, miles from anywhere.
    He lived out in Zambia for seven years.
    The weather's better out west (= a long distance away in the west of the country).
- If a light or fire is out, it is no longer shining or burning: 
    When we got home, all the lights were out.
    Is that fire completely out?
- away from the coast or beach: 
    Is the tide coming in or going out?
    You can only see the beach when the tide is out.
- (of information) no longer kept secret: 
    You can't hide your gambling any longer - the secret's out.
- If a gay person comes out, they tell people that they are gay, and do not keep it a secret: 
    She came out three years ago.
    He hasn't come out to his family yet.
- (of a ball in a sport such as tennis) landing outside one of the lines that mark the area where the game is played: 
    He thought the ball had bounced on the line, but the umpire said it was out.
- unconscious or sleeping: 
    He passes out (= loses consciousness) at the sight of blood.
    I was hit on the head, and I must have been out cold (= completely unconscious) for about ten minutes.
- not accurate: 
    Our estimates were only out by a few dollars.
    You were an inch out in your measurements.
    Those sales figures were way out (= completely wrong).
    I'm out $25 on this trip (= it cost me $25 more than expected).
- (used with superlatives) available or in existence: 
    This is the best automatic camera out.
    I think he's the greatest football player out.
- used to show that a period of time is finished: 
    I think I can finish this project before the month's out.
- not acceptable or not possible: 
    Smoking is definitely out among my friends.
    The option of taking on more staff is out for the moment.
- no longer fashionable or popular: 
    Every month the magazine lists what's out and what's in (= fashionable).
    Trousers like that went out (= stopped being fashionable) in the 70s.
- doing something, or intending to do something, for an unpleasant reason or only because it is good for you and not others: 
    She doesn't usually help the charity - she's only out for the publicity.
    He's always been out to cause trouble between us.
- to publish the fact that a famous person is gay, especially when that person does not want it to be known: 
    Hardly a week went by without someone famous being outed.
- an excuse or reason for avoiding an unpleasant situation: 
    We must arrange the negotiations so we have an out if we need it.
- People who are on the outs have argued and are not now friendly with each other: 
    Lizzie and Tyler are on the outs again.
- used to add the meaning "not central" to nouns and adjectives: 
    the outskirts of town (= the areas that form the edge of the town)
- used to add the meaning "going further" or "being better than" to verbs: 
    She doesn't drink or smoke and I'm sure she'll outlive (= live longer than) us all.
- used to add the meaning "out of" or "away from" to nouns and adjectives: 
    She turned away from their outstretched hands (= hands held out).
idioms:
 out and about
 out and away
 out with it!

if /ɪf/
- used to say that a particular thing can or will happen only after something else happens or becomes true: 
    I'll pay you double if you get the work finished by Friday.
    We'll have the party in the garden if the weather's good. If not (= if the weather is not good), it'll have to be inside.
    If anyone calls, just say I'll be back in the office at four o'clock.
    If she hadn't called, I wouldn't have known.
    I wouldn't work for them (even) if they paid me twice my current salary.
    We'll deal with that problem if and when it arises.
    If disturbed, the bird may abandon the nest, leaving the chicks to die.
- although: 
    They're great kids, even if they can be demanding.
    It was a hot, if windy day.
- every time: 
    If water is heated to 100°C it turns to steam.
    If I don't get enough sleep I get a headache.
- used to mean "if it is true that": 
    I'm very sorry if I've offended you.
- used to introduce a clause, often in indirect speech, that shows two or more possibilities: 
    Mrs Kramer called half an hour ago to ask if her cake was ready.
    I don't care if he likes it or not - I'm coming!
    I was wondering if you'd like to come to the cinema with me this evening?
- used when you want to make a polite request or remark: 
    If you'd like to take a seat, Mr Chang will be with you in a moment.
    Would you mind if I open/opened (= can I open) the window?
    There are, if you don't mind me saying so, one or two problems with this plan.
- something that is not certain or not yet decided: 
    There's a big if hanging over the project (= it is uncertain whether the project will happen).
idioms:
 if and when
 if anything
 if I were you
 if need be
 if you will
 no ifs or buts

her strong /hɜːr/
- used, usually as the object of a verb or preposition, to refer to a woman, girl, or female animal that has just been mentioned or is just about to be mentioned: 
    If your sister's around, bring her too.
    I gave her the letter.
    She's a beautiful horse - how long have you had her?
- used to refer to a country, a boat, or a car: 
    God bless this ship and all who sail in her.
- belonging to or connected with a woman, girl, or female animal that has just been mentioned or is known about: 
    I'll see if Louisa will bring her guitar to the party.
    I don't know why she quit her job.
    We saw a mother duck with her ducklings.
- belonging to a country, a boat, or a car: 
    The boat sank with all her crew.

she strong /ʃiː/
- used as the subject of a verb to refer to a woman, girl, or female animal that has already been mentioned: 
    I asked my mother if she'd lend me some money, but she said no.
- used instead of "it" to refer to a country, ship, or vehicle: 
    After India became independent, she chose to be a member of the Commonwealth.
    Look at my new car - isn't she beautiful?
- a female: 
    Is this kitten a she or a he?
- female: 
    a she-wolf 
    An enormous she-bear was hiding there, ready to pounce.

can strong /kæn/
- to be able to: 
    Can you drive?
    She can speak four languages.
    Can you read that sign from this distance?
    The doctors are doing all that they can, but she's still not breathing properly.
    Do the best you can - I realize the circumstances are not ideal.
    If the party is awful, we can always leave (= that would be one possible solution to our problem).
    "She's really furious about it." "Can you blame her (= I'm not surprised)?"
- used to say that you can and will do something: 
    "Will you mail this letter for me, please?" "Can do."
    "I need you to pick up the kids today." "Sorry, no can do (= no I can't)."
- to be allowed to: 
    Can I use your bike, John?
    You can park over there.
    You can have a piece of cake after you've eaten your vegetables!
- sometimes used to tell someone angrily to do something: 
    If you carry on being horrible to your sister, Sophie, you can just go to bed!
- used to request something: 
    If you see Brett, can you tell him I'm in town next weekend?
    Can you make a little less noise, please? I'm trying to work.
- used to express possibility: 
    You can get stamps from the local newsagents.
    You can get very nasty skin diseases from bathing in dirty water.
    Smoking can cause cancer.
    Noise can be quite a problem when you're living in a flat.
    He can be really annoying at times (= he is sometimes very annoying).
- used in polite offers of help: 
    Can I help you with those bags?
    I'm afraid Ms Ferguson has already left the office. Can I be of any help?
- a closed metal container, especially cylinder-shaped, in which some types of drink and food are sold: 
    a can of soup/beans
- the amount of food or drink that is contained in a can: 
    You'll need a can of tuna for this recipe.
- a metal container, especially one with a lid, handle, and shaped opening for pouring: 
    an oil can
    a can of paint
- → 
headphones : 
    I was wearing cans so I didn't hear anything.
- informal for prison: 
    He spent ten years in the can for armed robbery.
- informal for toilet
- to put food and drink into a closed metal container without air: 
    He works in a factory where they can fruit.
- to stop doing something or making noise: 
    Hey, can it, would you? I'm trying to sleep.
idioms:
 can of worms
 in the can

up /ʌp/
- towards a higher position; towards a higher value, number, or level: 
    Put those books up on the top shelf.
    A gravel road leads through the jungle and up into the Andes.
    Pushing the number of unit sales up every quarter can't be continued indefinitely.
    The water was up to/had come up to the level of the windows.
- out of the ground: 
    He spent the afternoon digging carrots up.
- from a higher to a lower position repeatedly: 
    My little girl started jumping up and down with rage when she heard she couldn't go.
- in or into a vertical position: 
    Would you stand up for a minute? I want to see how tall you are.
- in a high position; at the top: 
    Our boardroom is up on the 23rd floor.
    You can tell which way up the crates have to be because they all say "TOP".
- very near: 
    Carrying a gun, he walked up to the cashier and demanded money.
    A limousine drew up (= parked) outside the hotel.
- to a greater degree; in order to increase: 
    The fire heats the room up (= makes it warmer) within minutes.
    Grandma always turns the TV up really loud because she can't hear very well.
    Try not to get worked up (= increasingly excited or angry) - I'm sure we can resolve this.
- If a level or amount is up, it has increased: 
    The cost of car insurance is up, but not very much.
    Last year the company's turnover was $240 billion, up three percent on (= compared with) the previous year.
- not in bed: 
    It's time to get up now!
    I was up all night, finishing my essay.
- to be able to get out of bed and move around again after a period of illness, because your health has improved enough
- into existence, view, or attention: 
    Originally the charity was set up to help orphans in urban areas.
    I'm sorry, but something unexpected has come up (= has happened) at the office, and I'll be home late.
    Coming up (= happening next) after the break, we have a man who claims he can communicate with fish.
    Would this be a good time to bring up the issue of salary?
- so as to be equal in quality, knowledge, or achievement: 
    She couldn't go to school for a few weeks because of illness, but she'll be able to catch up (with her work) quickly.
    So much scientific research is being performed that it's virtually impossible to keep up (with all the new developments).
- in a state of being together with other similar things: 
    You have half an hour to gather up anything you'll need for the journey.
    Add up the column of numbers in your head and then tell me what the total is.
- tightly or firmly in order to keep something safe or in position: 
    Tie up the top of the bag so the rubbish doesn't fall out.
    You'd better wrap up (= wear warm clothes) - it's cold outside.
    Can you do my shoelaces up for me?
- broken or cut into smaller pieces; made smaller in area: 
    He cut the letter up into a hundred pieces.
    She folded the newspaper up and put it in her bag.
    The car blew up (= exploded) when flames reached its fuel tank.
- to a greater age: 
    No one said that growing up would be easy or painless.
    Many single parents struggle to bring their children up on a low income.
- used when talking or asking about what is happening: 
    Everyone was talking in whispers, and I could tell something was up (= something unusual was happening).
    What's up? (= What is happening or what is wrong?)
- When a period of time is up, it is finished: 
    When the two hours were up nobody had answered all of the questions.
    Your time is up - it's someone else's turn on the training equipment now.
- into an improved position or state: 
    By lap 26, Hamilton had moved up into second position.
    Stein had a bad start to the race, but by the ninth lap she was up with the leaders.
- to an end, finish, or state of being complete: 
    Finish up the old loaf of bread before you start a new one.
    Crime won't help - you'll end up in prison.
    I'd like to round up the meeting by thanking all those who were able to attend at such short notice.
- towards the north: 
    On Tuesday she'll be travelling up to Atlanta from New Orleans.
- towards a more important place, especially a city: 
    How often do you go up to London?
    She comes up from her village about once a month on the train.
- intended, suggested, or being considered for something: 
    That house at the end of our road is up for sale again.
    Are you really up for promotion?
- willing and able to do or take part in an activity: 
    After a long day at work I wasn't really up for a party.
    We're going swimming. Are you up for it?
    I'm up for organizing the meeting if nobody else wants to do it.
- on trial in a court: 
    If he doesn't pay the fine soon, he'll be up before the magistrate.
    Smith is up for armed robbery.
- When a road is up, it is being repaired and so is unsuitable for use: 
    The council has got the road up because of a broken sewer.
- If someone's long hair is up, it is arranged on the top or back of the head: 
    You look nice with your hair up.
- to or in a higher level or position: 
    We followed her up the stairs to a large meeting room.
- at the top of: 
    You'll find a dusty attic up these stairs.
    If you want Fred, he's up that ladder.
- (further) along: 
    The car shot off up the road at high speed.
    They live just up the road.
- along the surface of something first in one direction and then in the opposite direction, usually repeatedly: 
    He was running up and down the street, shouting.
- towards the starting point of something, especially a river or stream: 
    Rowing up (the) river against the current was very hard work.
- to or at: 
    Are you going up the club tonight?
- moving up: 
    an up escalator
- When a system, computer, or similar machine is up, it is operating, especially in its usual way: 
    Andy, do you know when the network will be up again?
- feeling happy: 
    She's been really up since she started her new job.
- to increase something such as a price: 
    We won't be able to make a profit on the deal without upping the sale price.
    It looks like tax rates are going to be upped again.
- used with another verb to emphasize that someone left a place or did something in a sudden and possibly unexpected way: 
    After dinner they just upped and left/went without saying goodbye.
- higher or improved: 
    uphill
    uplift
idioms:
 be up there with sb
 up and down
 up and down somewhere
 up to (doing) sth
 be up to sth
 up with
 be up yourself
 up yours!
 up and running

want /wɒnt/
- to wish for a particular thing or plan of action. "Want" is not used in polite requests: 
    I want some chocolate.
    She wants a meeting with you.
    He's everything you'd ever want in a man - bright, funny and attractive.
    What do you want to eat?
    Do you want me to take you to the airport?
    This package - do you want it sent today?
    Do you want this pie hot?
    I don't want you coming in at two a.m., waking me up.
    You wait - by next year she'll be wanting a bigger house!
- to wish or need someone to be present: 
    Am I wanted at the meeting tomorrow?
    He is wanted by the police (= they are searching for him).
- to want to start or stop being involved in something: 
    I want out of the whole venture before it's too late.
- to need something: 
    Do you think this soup wants a bit of salt?
    The wine is in the fridge - it just wants cooling for a couple of minutes.
    If you ask me that child wants a good slap!
- used in giving advice to mean that someone should do something: 
    She wants to tell him now, before it's too late.
    You don't want to put too much pepper in.
- a lack of something: 
    For want of anything better to do I watched television for a while.
    If we fail it won't be for want of trying (= we have tried even if we fail).
- needing: 
    He appeared tired and in want of a shave.
- needs: 
    Our wants are few.
idioms:
 not/never want for anything
 tried and found wanting

now /naʊ/
- at the present time, not in the past or future: 
    She used to be a teacher, but now she works in publishing.
    I may eat something later, but I'm not hungry now.
    Many people now own a smartphone.
- immediately: 
    I don't want to wait until tomorrow, I want it now!
- used to express how long something has been happening, from when it began to the present time: 
    She's been a vegetarian for ten years now.
- used in stories or reports of past events to describe a new situation or event: 
    It was getting dark now, and we were tired.
- used when describing a situation that is the result of what someone just said or did: 
    Oh yes, now I know who you mean.
- very soon: 
    The guests are coming any minute now, and the house is still a mess.
- used to introduce a new subject: 
    And now for what we're going to do tomorrow.
- used in statements and questions to introduce or give emphasis to what you are saying: 
    Now, where did I put my hat?
    There was a knock at the door. Now Jan knew her mother had promised to come by, so she assumed it was her.
    Hurry, now, or you'll miss the bus!
    Sorry, I can't today. Now if you'd asked me yesterday, I would have said yes.
- the present moment or time: 
    Now isn't a good time to speak to him.
    I thought you'd be finished by now.
    You should have mentioned it before now.
    That's all for now (= until a future point in time).
- from this moment and always in the future: 
    From now on the gates will be locked at midnight.
- used to give an explanation of a new situation: 
    Now I have my car, I don't get as much exercise as I used to.
    She's enjoying the job now that she's got more responsibility.
- fashionable and popular at the present time: 
    Posh decorative glass is very now. 
    Name changes are so now, with several stores keen to acquire a new image this way.
idioms:
 it's now or never
 (every) now and then/again
 now then
 now you're talking
 now, now

go /ɡəʊ/
go | present participle going | past tense went | past participle gone
- to travel or move to another place: 
    We went into the house.
    I went to Paris last summer. Have you ever been there?
    We don't go to the cinema very often these days.
    Wouldn't it be quicker to go by train?
    Does this train go to Newcastle?
    Where do you think you're going? Shouldn't you be at school?
- to be in the process of moving: 
    Can't we go any faster?
    We were going along at about 50 miles an hour.
    to go down the road
    to go up/down stairs
    to go over the bridge
    to go through a tunnel
    I've got a tune going around/round in my head (= I am continually hearing it) and I just can't remember the name of it.
- to move or travel somewhere in order to do something: 
    We go shopping every Friday night.
    I've never gone skiing.
    They've gone for a walk, but they should be back soon.
    She went to meet Blake at the station.
    There's a good film on at the Odeon. Shall we go?
- said when you cannot find something: 
    Where have my keys gone?
- to leave a place, especially in order to travel to somewhere else: 
    Is it midnight already? I really must go/must be going.
    She wasn't feeling well, so she went home early.
    What time does the last train to Bath go?
    I'm afraid he'll have to go (= be dismissed from his job) - he's far too inefficient to continue working for us.
    This carpet's terribly old and worn out - it really will have to go (= be got rid of).
- If you ask for some food to go at a restaurant, you want it wrapped up so that you can take it away with you instead of eating it in the restaurant: 
    I'd like a cheeseburger and strawberry milkshake to go, please.
- polite word for to die: 
    She went peacefully in her sleep.
- If a road, path, etc. goes in a particular direction, it leads there: 
    This road goes to Birmingham.
    A huge crack went from the top to the bottom of the wall.
- to continue for a particular length: 
    The tree's roots go down three metres.
- to intend to do or be something in the future: 
    Are you going to go to Claire's party?
    He wants me to mend his shirt for him, but I'm not going to!
    I'm going to be a famous pop star when I'm older.
- to be certain or expected to happen in the future: 
    They're going to have a baby in the spring.
    There's going to be trouble when Paul finds out about this.
    The forecast said it was going to be hot and sunny tomorrow.
- to become: 
    The idea of going grey doesn't bother me, but I'd hate to go bald.
    Her father's going senile/blind/deaf.
    If anything goes wrong, you can call our emergency hotline free of charge.
    After twelve years of Republican presidents, the US went Democratic in 1992.
- to move a part of the body in a particular way or the way that is shown: 
    Go like this with your hand to show that you're turning left.
- to operate (in the right way): 
    Have you any idea why this watch won't go?
    Can you help me get my car going?
    Our company has been going (= has been in business) for 20 years.
- If a period of time goes, it passes: 
    I had a wonderful weekend but it went very quickly.
    Time seems to go faster as you get older.
    There's only a week to go before (= until) I get my exam results.
- to be or stay in a particular condition, especially an unpleasant one : 
    In spite of the relief effort, thousands of people continue to go hungry.
    Why do so many rapes go unreported?
- in comparison with most other things of a particular type, especially when you do not think that type of thing is very good: 
    It was quite a good film, as horror films go.
    I suppose the concert was OK, as these things go.
- to prove that something is true: 
    Your daughter's attitude only goes to prove how much society has changed over the last 30 years.
- to start doing or using something: 
    I'll just connect the printer to the computer and then we'll be ready to go.
- to use your opportunity to play in a game: 
    It's your turn to go now.
- (of a number) to fit into another number especially resulting in a whole number: 
    5 into 11 won't go.
    3 goes into 15 fives times.
- to say, especially when a story is being told: 
    "I never want to see you ever again," he goes, and storms out the house.
- to become weak or damaged, especially from being used (too much), or to stop working: 
    After a gruelling six months singing on a world tour, it is hardly surprising that her voice is starting to go.
    I really must get a new jacket - this one's starting to go at the elbows.
    Her hearing is going, but otherwise she's remarkably fit for a 95-year-old.
- to produce a noise: 
    I think I heard the doorbell go (= ring) just now.
    I wish my computer would stop going "beep" whenever I do something wrong.
- to be expressed, sung, or played: 
    I can never remember how that song goes.
    "Doesn't it go something like this?" said Joan, and played the first couple of bars on her guitar.
    The story goes (= people say) (that) he was fireds after he was caught stealing company property.
    A headless ghost walks the castle at night - or so the story goes (= so people say).
- to happen or be found regularly or typically with each other or another: 
    Wisdom and maturity don't necessarily go together.
    She knows all about the health problems that go with smoking.
    Great wealth often goes hand in hand with meanness.
- to be put in a particular place, especially as the usual place: 
    The sofa went against that wall before we had the radiator put in.
    I'll put it all away if you tell me where everything goes.
- to be sold or be available: 
    The shop is having a closing-down sale - everything must go.
    The painting will go to the highest bidder.
    I bought some flowers that were going cheap.
    "Going... going... gone! (= Sold!)" said the auctioneer, banging down the hammer.
- to look or be acceptable or suitable: 
    That picture would go well on the wall in the living room.
    The TV would go nicely in that corner, wouldn't it?
    If I wear the orange hat with the blue dress, do you think it will go?
    Just remember that I'm the boss and what I say goes (= you have to accept what I say).
    My parents don't worry too much about what I am up to, and most of the time anything goes (= I can do what I want).
- to be known (by a particular name): 
    He had a scruffy old teddy bear that went by the name of Augustus.
    In Britain, this flour usually goes under the name of maize meal.
- to develop or happen: 
    "How did the interview go?" "It went very well, thanks."
    Things have gone badly for him since his business collapsed.
- an attempt to do something: 
    I've never done this before but I'll give it a go.
    "This jar is impossible to open." "Here, let me have a go."
    I want to have a go at finishing my essay tonight.
    We can't do the work all in one go (= all at the same time).
- to try to make something succeed, usually by working hard: 
    She's really making a go of her new antique shop.
    I can't see him ever making a go of accountancy.
- an opportunity to play in a game, or to do or use something: 
    Hey, it's Ken's go now! You've just had your go.
    Please can I have a go (= can I ride) on your bike?
    I'll have a go at driving for a while if you're tired.
- to criticize someone: 
    My Dad's always having a go at me about getting a proper job.
- the condition of being energetic and active: 
    You're full of go this morning.
    He doesn't have much go about him, does he?
- a Chinese game played on a square board in which two players try to surround each others' stones (= pieces): 
    Around 50m people in east Asia play go.
    Go was all the rage in Japanese courtly circles by the 11th century.
idioms:
 go about your business
 go and...
 go down swinging/fighting
 go for it
 go it alone
 have sth going for you
 not go there
 the same/that goes for sb/sth
 what are you going to do?
 be (a) no go
 be on the go
phrasal verbs:
 go about sth
 go after sb
 go after sth
 go against sb
 go against sth/sb
 go ahead
 go along
 go along with sth/sb
 go around
 go around (somewhere)
 go around sth
 go at sb
 go at sth
 go away
 go back
 go back on sth
 go back to sb
 go back to sth
 go by
 go by sth
 go down 
 go down
 go down on sb
 go down with sth
 go for sb
 go for sth
 go in
 go in for sth
 go in on sth
 go into sth
 go off
 go off sb/sth
 go off with sb
 go off with sth
 go on
 go on sth
 go out
 go out for sth
 go out to sb
 go over
 go over sth
 go over to sth
 go round
 go round (somewhere)
 go round sth
 go through
 go through sth
 go through with sth
 go to sb
 go together
 go under
 go up
 go up to sth
 go with sth
 go with sb
 go with sb/sth
 go without (sth)

him strong /hɪm/
- used, usually as the object of a verb or preposition, to refer to a man, boy, or male animal that has just been mentioned or is just about to be mentioned: 
    If you see Kevin give him my love.
    What's Terry up to - I haven't seen him for ages.
    Why don't you give him his present?
    We've just got a new cat, but we haven't named him yet.
- used after a verb or preposition to refer to a person or animal that has just been mentioned, or is just about to be mentioned, and whose sex is not known or not considered to be important. Many people consider this use to be offensive and prefer to use him or her or them instead, or it for an animal: 
    A human being's ability to talk makes him unlike any other animal.
    If anyone comes to see me, ask him to wait.
    Human beings' ability to talk makes them unlike any other animal.

there /ðeər/
- (to, at, or in) that place: 
    Put the chair there.
    The museum is closed today. We'll go there tomorrow.
    There's that book you were looking for.
    I'll have to stop you there - we've run out of time.
    I left the boxes over/out/under there.
- to arrive somewhere: 
    We'll never get there in time.
- to succeed: 
    Try again - you'll get there in the end.
- used to introduce the subject of a sentence, especially before the verbs be, seem, and appear: 
    There's someone on the phone for you.
    There's no doubt who is the best candidate.
    I took out my wallet but there was no money in it.
    By the time I got back, there was no food left.
    There appeared/seemed to be a problem with finding a date for the meeting.
    There's (= there are) lives at stake and we can't afford to take any risks.
- used to begin some children's stories written in a traditional style: 
    There once was/lived a poor widow who had a beautiful daughter.
- used to express sympathy or satisfaction: 
    There, I've finally got it working.
idioms:
 be there for sb
 there you go again
 there and back
 there you go
 there's a good boy/girl/dog!
 there, there

one /wʌn/
- the number 1: 
    He had two slices and I only had one.
    She'll be one year old tomorrow.
- a member of a group of people or things: 
    One of their daughters has just had a baby.
    EMI is one of the world's largest record companies.
    Finding a cure for cancer is one of the biggest challenges facing medical researchers.
    Our organization is just one of many charities that are providing famine relief in the region.
- used to refer to a time in the future that is not yet decided: 
    Why don't we meet for lunch one day next week?
    I'd like to go skiing one Christmas.
- used to refer to a particular occasion while avoiding stating the exact moment: 
    One night we stayed up talking till dawn.
    He was attacked as he was walking home from work late one afternoon.
    One moment he says he loves me, the next moment he's asking for a divorce.
    She never seems to know what she's doing from one minute to the next.
- a single thing; not two or more: 
    Eat them one at a time (= separately).
    I think we should paint the bedroom all one (= in a single) colour.
    Do you think five of us will manage to squeeze into the one car?
- combined in a single person or object: 
    With this model you get a radio, CD player, and MP3 dock all in one.
- used when saying there is no other person or thing: 
    He's the one person you can rely on in an emergency.
    This may be your one and only (= only ever) opportunity to meet her.
    My final guest on tonight's show needs no introduction. Please welcome the one and only Michael Jordan!
- used before the name of someone who is not known: 
    Her solicitor is one John Wintersgill.
- used to emphasize an adjective: 
    His mother is one (= a very) generous woman.
    That's one (= a very) big ice cream cone you have there.
    It was one hell of a (= a very great) shock to find out I'd lost my job.
- used to refer to a particular thing or person within a group or range of things or people that are possible or available: 
    I have a few books on Chinese food. You can borrow one if you want.
    Which one would you like?
    Please make a copy for everybody in the office and a few extra ones for the visitors.
    "Which cake would you like?" "The one in the front."
    French croissants are so much better than the ones we get here.
    There were lots of people watching, and not one of them offered to help.
    I've received no replies to my job applications - not a single one (= none).
    Chris is the one (= the person) with curly brown hair.
- to never do something: 
    I'm not one to criticize other people, as you know.
- to like something very much: 
    I've never been one for staying out late.
    He's a great one for the ladies.
- used to talk about one person or thing compared with other similar or related people or things: 
    They look so similar it's often difficult to distinguish one from the other.
    You may have one or the other, but not both.
    Crime and freedom are inseparable. You can't have one without the other.
- any person, but not a particular person: 
    One has an obligation to one's friends.
    One ought to make the effort to vote.
- the person speaking or writing: 
    Of course, one (= I) would be delighted to dine with the Queen.
idioms:
 be a one
 be at one
 be one of a kind
 down in one
 for one
 go off on one
 got it in one!
 a hundred/thousand/million and one
 in ones and twos
 one after another
 one and all
 one by one
 one day
 one or two
 one way or another
 the one about
 the one percent

why /waɪ/
- for what reason: 
    "I'm going home." "Why?"
    Why did you choose to live in London?
    Why wait? Let's leave now.
    Why should I help him - he never helps me?
    Why is it that I find chocolate so addictive?
    The police asked me to explain why I hadn't reported the accident sooner.
    I don't know why she isn't here.
    Quite why he isn't here today is a mystery.
    There is no reason why we shouldn't succeed.
- used to express surprise or anger: 
    Why, if it isn't old Georgie Frazer!
    Why, I've never seen anything like it!
- the reasons for something: 
    I know very little about the whys and the wherefores of the situation.
idioms:
 why don't you...?
 why not...?

see /siː/
see | present participle seeing | past tense saw | past participle seen
- to be conscious of what is around you by using your eyes: 
    Turn the light on so I can see.
    I can see you!
    The teacher could see (that) the children had been fighting.
    Jacqui saw the car drive up outside the police station.
    From the window we could see the children playing in the yard.
    His parents saw him awarded the winner's medal.
    See (= look at) p. 23 for prices and flight details.
    See over (= look at the next page) for further information.
- to watch a film, television programme, etc.: 
    Did you see that documentary on Channel 4 last night?
- to be the time or place when something happens: 
    This summer has seen the end of water restrictions in the area thanks to a new reservoir.
- said to mean that more surprising or exciting things are likely to happen
- to understand, know, or realize: 
    I see (that) the club is organizing a theatre trip next month.
    He can't see what difference it makes to come (= he doesn't think it is important if he comes) on Thursday instead of Friday.
    They didn't see the need/any need (= understand that it was important) to notify their members of the changes in writing.
    They refused to help because they're too busy, but he seems to see more in it than that.
    "I'm tired." "So I see - you've been yawning all afternoon."
    I was surprised that they couldn't see my point of view.
    The government didn't want to be seen to be making concessions to terrorists.
    After she read his book she started to see the issue in another/a different/a new light (= differently).
- to meet or visit someone, or to visit a place: 
    We're seeing friends this weekend.
    I haven't seen Jerry around (= in the places I usually meet him) in the last few weeks.
    No one has seen much of Daryl since he got married.
    They see a lot of each other (= are often together).
    My mother is seeing the doctor again next week.
    The children wanted to see the circus.
    The agent said they could see the house (UK also see round the house) at 3 p.m.
- to have a romantic relationship with someone: 
    How long has she been seeing him?
- to consider or think about, especially to think about someone or something in a particular way, or to imagine someone doing a particular activity: 
    She didn't see herself as brave.
    It was easy to see the gift as a kind of bribe.
    I can't see her accepting (= I don't think she will accept) the job in the present circumstances.
    As I see it/things/the situation, we'll have to get extra help.
    Try and see it my way - I'll be left without any help if you go.
- to take someone somewhere by going there with them: 
    He saw his visitors to the door.
    Her friends saw her home.
    The security guard saw the protesters off the premises.
- to try to discover: 
    Will you see if you can get anyone to help?
    I'll see what I can do.
- to make certain that something happens: 
    The receptionist said he'd see (that) she got the message.
    See (that) you're ready by five, or there'll be trouble.
- a place where there is a cathedral and where a bishop or archbishop has authority: 
    the See of York/Exeter/Lincoln
    bishops and their sees
idioms:
 can't see it (myself)
 can't see the wood for the trees
 have seen better days
 sth has to be seen to be believed
 (if you've) seen one, you've seen them all
 I/we'll (have to) see
 let me see/let's see
 not see beyond sth
 not see sb for dust
 not see hide nor hair of sb
 see sth coming
 see sb in hell before ...
 see sb right
 see your way (clear) to doing sth
 see a man about a dog
 see eye to eye
 see fit
 see in the New Year
 see life
 see red
 see sense/reason
 see stars
 see the back of sb/sth
 see the colour of sb's money
 see the joke
 see the last of sth/sb
 see the light
 see the light of day
 see the point of sth
 see sth with your own eyes
 see you (later)
 seeing is believing
 seeing things
 we'll (soon) see about that
 what you see is what you get
 wouldn't be seen dead
 you see
 the Holy See
phrasal verbs:
 see about sth
 see sth in sb/sth
 see sb off
 see sb/sth off
 see sth out
 see sb out
 see yourself out
 see sb through sth
 see sth through
 see through sb/sth
 see to sth/sb

come /kʌm/
come | came | come
- to move or travel towards the speaker or with the speaker: 
    Are you coming with me?
    There's a car coming!
    Can you come to my party?
    Here comes Adam.
    She's come 500 km (= has travelled 500 km) to be here with us tonight.
    If you're ever in Dublin, come and visit us.
    We came by car.
    Your father will come for (= to collect) you at four o'clock.
    Come forward a bit and stand on the line.
    I've come straight from the airport.
    The door opened and a nurse came into the room.
    A man's coming to mend the boiler this afternoon.
    As he came towards me, I could see he'd been crying.
    He thought we'd been picking his apples and came after (= chased) us with a stick.
    He came rushing over when I fell.
- to move or travel in the direction of the person being spoken to: 
    "Sal, are you ready?" "Coming."
    I'll come and pick you up in the car if you like.
    I've come for (= come to get) your census form.
    I've come to read the gas meter.
- to get to a particular place: 
    Has she come yet?
    When does the post come?
    Hasn't his train come in yet?
- to leave a place: 
    I had to come away from the party early.
    The police watched him come out of the house.
- to change or develop so as to be in a different position or condition: 
    Those pictures will have to come down (= be removed from the wall).
    He pulled the knob and it just came off (in his hand).
    How many times have you come off that horse?
    Two of his teeth came out after he got hit in the face.
    Can you get this cork to come out of the bottle?
    When does the heating come on (= start working)?
    A wire has come loose at the back.
    The door came open for no apparent reason.
- to happen: 
    Spring has come early.
    The announcement came at a bad time.
    Her resignation came as quite a shock.
    Come Monday morning (= when it is Monday morning) you'll regret staying up all night.
    I'm afraid those days are gone and they'll never come again.
- to have or achieve a particular position in a race, competition, list, etc.: 
    She came second (US came in second) in the 100 metres.
    Z comes after Y in the alphabet.
    Which king came after Edward?
    April comes before May.
    I know the first verse of the song, but I don't know what comes next.
- to exist or be available: 
    Do these trousers come in any other colour?
    Runners come in all shapes and sizes - fat and thin, short and tall.
    This cuddly baby doll comes with her own blanket and bottle.
    They're the best sunglasses you can buy, but they don't come cheap (= they are expensive).
- to start to do something: 
    I've come to like her over the months.
    It used to hold paper bags, but gradually came to be used for magazines.
    How did that phrase come to mean (= develop so that it means) that?
- to have an orgasm
- 
semen  (= the liquid containing sperm)
idioms:
 as it comes
 be as crazy, rich, etc. as they come
 come again?
 come and go
 come down on sb like a ton of bricks
 come from behind
 come off it!
 come out swinging/fighting
 come the sth
 come to pass
 come to sb's attention/notice
 come to that
 come what may
 the days/week(s)/year(s) to come
 had it coming (to you)
 have sth coming out of your ears
 how come?
 not know whether you are coming or going
phrasal verbs:
 come about
 come across
 come across sth
 come along
 come apart
 come around
 come at sb
 come away
 come back
 come back to sb
 come before sth/sb
 come between sb
 come between sth
 come by sth
 come by (somewhere)
 come down
 come down on sb/sth
 come down to sth
 come down with sth
 come forward
 come from somewhere/sth
 come from sth
 come in
 come in for sth
 come into sth
 come of sth
 come off
 come off sth
 come on
 come on/along
 come out
 come out in sth
 come out of sth
 come out with sth
 come over
 come over sb
 come round
 come through
 come through (sth)
 come to
 come to sb
 come to sth
 come under sth
 come up
 come up against sth
 come up to sth
 come up with sth
 come upon sb/sth

good /ɡʊd/
good | better | best
- very satisfactory, enjoyable, pleasant, or interesting: 
    a good book
    Did you have a good time at the party?
    The weather has been really good for the time of year.
    I've just had some very good news.
    It's so good to see you after all this time!
- used in greetings: 
    good morning/afternoon/evening
- healthy or well: 
    I didn't go into work because I wasn't feeling too good.
    "How's your mother?" "She's good, thanks."
- used as a general reply when someone greets you: 
    "How are you doing?" "I'm good, thanks."
- of a high quality or level: 
    She speaks very good French.
    I've heard it's a very good school.
    The apple pie was as good as the one my grandmother used to make.
    This restaurant has a good reputation.
- used to express praise: 
    Good man! Splendid catch.
- successful, or able to do something well: 
    Kate's a good cook.
    She's very good at geography.
    They have a good relationship.
    She's very good with children.
- to be of low quality or not useful: 
    Shoes are no good if they let in water.
    Food aid isn't much good until the fighting stops.
- to begin an activity successfully: 
    I didn't get off to a very good start this morning - I'd been at work five minutes and my computer stopped working!
- kind or helpful: 
    a good friend
    It's good of you to offer to help.
    He's very good to his mother.
- used to make a polite request: 
    Be so good as to close the door when you leave.
- to do something kind that helps someone else
- morally right or based on religious principles: 
    She led a good life.
    Try to set a good example to the children.
- having a positive or useful effect, especially on the health: 
    Make sure you eat plenty of good fresh food.
    Too much sugar in your diet isn't good for you.
    It's good for old people to stay active if they can.
- A good child or animal behaves well: 
    If you're a good boy at the doctor's, I'll take you swimming afterwards.
- able to be trusted: 
    Her credit is good (= she can be trusted to pay her debts).
- suitable, convenient, or satisfactory: 
    When would be a good time to phone?
- used to emphasize the large number, amount, or level of something: 
    We've walked a good distance today.
    There was a good-sized crowd at the airport waiting for the plane to land.
    Not all of his movies have been successful - there were a good few (= several) failures in the early years.
    You'll need a good length of rope to secure this properly.
    You have a good cry and you'll feel better after.
    There's a good chance the operation will be successful.
- much: 
    The new law met with a good deal of opposition at the local level.
- more than: 
    It's a good half hour's walk to the station from here.
    The police said a good 20 kilos of explosive were found during the raid.
    Driving through the deserted town we saw a good many (= a lot of) burned-out houses.
- said when you are satisfied or pleased about something, or to show agreement with a decision: 
    Oh good, he's arrived at last.
    Good, I'll tell her it's all arranged, then.
- used to tell someone that you have everything that you need: 
    "More coffee?" "No, I'm good, thanks."
- things for sale, or the things that you own: 
    There is a 25 percent discount on all electrical goods until the end of the week.
    The house insurance will not cover your personal goods.
- things, but not people, that are transported by railway or road: 
    a goods train
- something that is an advantage or help to a person or situation: 
    Even a small donation can do a lot of good.
    I'm telling you for your own good.
- the state of being healthy or in a satisfactory condition: 
    You should stop smoking for your own good (= for your health).
    He goes running every day for the good of his health.
    Modernizing historic buildings can often do more harm than good.
    The decision has been postponed for the good of all concerned.
- to improve someone's health or life: 
    You can't work all the time - it does you good to go out and enjoy yourself sometimes.
    Take the medicine - it will do you (a power/world of) good (= improve your health a lot).
- that which is morally right: 
    There is an eternal struggle between good (= the force that produces morally right action) and evil.
    Ambition can sometimes be a force for good.
- all the people who are morally good
- for ever: 
    She's gone and this time it's for good.
idioms:
 be a good 
 all in good time
 as good as
 be (as) good as gold
 be (as) good as new
 be as good as your word
 be good for sth
 be good to go
 be good, and if you can't be good, be careful
 for good measure
 good and ...
 good and proper
 good for you!
 good heavens/grief/gracious!
 the good old days
 good show
 have a good innings
 in good faith
 in good time
 make good
 make good on sth
 make good time
 be up to no good
 come up with the goods
 no good
 to the good
 what good is ...

they /ðeɪ/
- used as the subject of a verb to refer to people, animals, or things already mentioned or, more generally, to a group of people not clearly described: 
    I've known the Browns for a long time. They're very nice people.
    Where are my glasses? They were on the table a minute ago.
    They (= people who know) say things will be better in the new year.
- used to avoid saying "he or she": 
    "There's someone on the phone for you." "What do they want?"

really /ˈrɪə.li/
- in fact: 
    He isn't really angry - he's just pretending.
    You don't really expect them to refuse, do you?
- used to say that something is certain: 
    Thank you, but I really couldn't eat another thing.
    He's really going to do it this time.
- very or very much: 
    She's really nice.
    This room is really hot.
    That's really interesting.
    It's a really difficult decision.
    "Did you like it? Not really (= no)."
- used to express interest, surprise, or anger: 
    "I'm getting married to Fred." "Really? When?"
    "She's promised to shave her head for charity." "Really? Do you think she'll do it?"
    "He hasn't brought the book back." "Oh, really! That's the second time I've asked him!"

when /wen/
- at what time; at the time at which: 
    "I did tell you about it." "When? I don't remember."
    When are you going?
    When's the baby due?
    We'll go when you're ready.
    Tell me when to start.
    Ask him when he's next coming home.
    When do you expect to have the project completed (by)?
    She was only 20 when she had her first baby.
    He was shocked when I told him.
    I hate it when there's no one in the office.
    I went there when I was a child.
    I was just getting into the bath when the phone rang.
- what/which time: 
    "Did you know Lucy was back in England?" "Is she - since when?"
- considering the fact that: 
    How can you say you don't like something when you've never even tried it!
    You can't complain about being lonely when you don't make any effort to meet people.
    Why is she training to be a teacher when she doesn't even like children?
    I don't suppose I can really call myself a vegetarian when I eat fish.
- despite the fact that: 
    He says he doesn't have any money when in fact he has thousands of dollars in his account.
    I don't understand how he can say that everything's fine when it's so obvious that it's not.
idioms:
 since when

back /bæk/
- in, into, or towards a previous place or condition, or an earlier time: 
    When you take the scissors, remember to put them back.
    He left a note saying "Gone out. Back soon."
    She went to Brazil for two years, but now she's back (= has returned).
    He looked back (= looked behind him) and saw they were following him.
    Looking at her old photographs brought back (= made her remember) a lot of memories.
    I was woken by a thunderstorm, and I couldn't get back to sleep (= could not sleep again).
    The last time we saw Lowell was back (= at an earlier time) in January.
    This tradition dates back to (= to the earlier time of) the 16th century.
- in return: 
    If he hits me, I'll hit him back.
    You're not just going to let her say those things about you without fighting back, are you?
- in reply: 
    I'm busy at the moment - can I call you back?
    I wrote to Donna several months ago, but she hasn't written back yet.
- further away in distance: 
    If we push the table back against the wall, we'll have more room.
    "Keep back!" he shouted, "Don't come any closer!"
    He sat back on the sofa.
    She threw back her head and laughed uproariously.
    The house is set back from the street.
- the inside or outside part of an object, vehicle, building, etc. that is furthest from the front: 
    He jotted her name down on the back of an envelope.
    I found my tennis racket at the back of the cupboard.
    We sat at the back of the bus.
    Our seats were right at the back of the auditorium.
    Ted was out/round the back (= in the area behind the house)."
    There is a beautiful garden at the back of (= behind) the house.
    If there's no reply at the front door, come round the back.
    He put his jacket on the back of his chair (= the part of the chair that you put your back against when you sit on it).
- close together and facing in opposite directions: 
    The office was full of computers, and we had to sit back to back in long rows.
- happening one after another, without interruption: 
    Coming up after the break, three Rolling Stones classics back to back.
- with the back part of something where the front should be: 
    You've put your jumper on back to front.
- the side of your hand that has hair growing on it
- the part of your body that is opposite to the front, from your shoulders to your bottom: 
    I have a bad back.
    Sleeping on a bed that is too soft can be bad for your back.
    He lay on his back, staring at the ceiling.
    I turned my back (= turned around so that I could not see) while she dressed.
    She put her back out (= caused a serious injury to her back) lifting a box.
- (in some sports, such as football) one of the players in a team who try to stop players from the other team from scoring goals, rather than trying to score goals himself or herself
- to give support to someone or something with money or words: 
    The management has refused to back our proposals.
- to risk money by saying that you think a horse, team, etc. will win a race, game, or competition in order to win more money if they do: 
    The horse I backed came in last.
- to (cause to) move backwards: 
    Ann gave up driving when she backed the car into the garage door.
    Please could you back your car up a few feet so that I can get mine out of the driveway?
- to cover the back of something with a material, often to make it stronger or thicker: 
    The material is backed with a heavy lining.
- at or near the back of something: 
    She left the house by the back door.
    The back seat of the car folds down.
- paid after the end of a period of time when it should have been paid: 
    They owe the staff several thousand in back pay.
    back rent/taxes
idioms:
 back and forth
 back in the day
 back to square one
 at/in the back of your mind
 the back of beyond
 in back of
 be on sb's back
 behind sb's back
 sb could do sth with one arm/hand tied behind his/her back
 get off sb's back
 have (got) sb's back
 have your back to/against the wall
 on the back of sth
 on the back of sb/sth
 put/get sb's back up
 on the back burner
 take a back seat
 back the wrong horse
phrasal verbs:
 back away
 back down
 back off
 back onto sth
 back out
 back sb up
 back sth up
 back (sth) up
 back up

from strong /frɒm/
- used to show the place where someone or something starts: 
    What time does the flight from Amsterdam arrive?
    The wind is coming from the north.
    She sent me a postcard from Bermuda.
    He took a handkerchief from his pocket.
    She took her hairbrush from her handbag and began to brush her hair.
    So did you really walk all the way from Smith Street?
- used to show the time when something starts or the time when it was made or first existed: 
    Drinks will be served from seven o'clock.
    The price of petrol will rise by 5p a gallon from tomorrow.
    Most of the tapestries in this room date from the 17th century.
    The museum is open from 9.30am to 6.00pm Tuesday to Sunday.
- starting at that time and then continuing: 
    From that day on, she vowed never to trust him again.
- used to show the distance between two places: 
    It's about two kilometres from the airport to your hotel.
    We're about a mile from home.
- used to show the origin of something or someone: 
    "Where are you from?" "I'm from Italy."
    I wonder who this card is from.
    Could I speak to someone from the sales department?
    She keeps in touch with her friends from college.
    What sort of reaction did you get from him?
- used to show the material of which something is made: 
    The desk is made from pine.
    Meringues are made from sugar and egg whites.
- used to show the level at which a range of things begins, such as numbers or prices: 
    Prices start from £2.99.
    Tickets will cost from $10 to $45.
    The number of people employed by the company has risen from 25 to 200 in three years.
- used to show a change in the state of someone or something: 
    Things went from bad to worse.
    The story was translated from Turish to English.
    Since the success of her first play, she has gone from strength to strength (= her success has continued to increase).
- used to show the cause of something or the reason why something happens: 
    He was rushed to hospital but died from his injuries.
    She made her money from investing in property.
    You could tell she wasn't lying from the fear in her voice.
    Wearing the correct type of clothing will reduce the risk from radiation.
- used to show the facts or opinions you consider before making a judgment or decision: 
    Just from looking at the clouds, I would say it's going to rain.
    It's difficult to guess what they will conclude from the evidence.
- used to show that someone has left a place, or that something has been removed or taken away: 
    They were exiled from their homes during the war.
    Her handbag was snatched from her in the street.
    A refining process is used to extract usable fuel from crude oil.
- If you take a smaller amount from a larger amount, you reduce the larger amount by the smaller one: 
    When you subtract 3 from 16 you get 13.
- used to show a difference between two people or things: 
    His opinion could hardly be more different from mine.
    The two sisters are so similar that it's almost impossible to tell one from the other.
- used to show the position of something in comparison with other things, or the point of view of someone when considering a matter or problem: 
    From the restaurant there is a beautiful view of the ocean.
    She was talking from her own experience of the problem.
    From our point of view, we do not see how these changes will be beneficial to the company.
- used to show what someone is being protected against: 
    They found shelter from the storm under a large oak tree.
- used to show what someone is not allowed to do or know, or what has been stopped happening: 
    He's been banned from driving for six months.
    For many years, the truth was kept from the public.
    The bank loan saved her company from bankruptcy.

were strong /wɜːr/
- past simple of
be 
- short form of we are: 
    We're here, Diane.

yes /jes/
- used to express willingness or agreement: 
    "Would you like a glass of wine?" "Yes, thanks."
    "Do you like Thai food?" "Yes, I love it."
    "He's a really nice guy." "Yes, he is."
    "Report to me at nine o'clock tomorrow morning." "Yes, sir."
    "Have you had enough to eat?" "Yes, thank you."
    If you'd say yes (= agree) to the request you'd avoid a lot of trouble.
- used for emphasis: 
    We visited all 50 states, yes sir, all 50.
- used to show that you are listening to someone, or that you are ready to listen and to give them an answer or information: 
    "Dad." "Yes, what do you want, honey?"
    Yes, can I help you?
- used when you are disagreeing with a negative statement: 
    "I'm not a very good cook, though." "Yes, you are - you make wonderful food!"
- used at the end of a sentence to invite someone to agree with you or to check that you have understood something correctly: 
    It's better this way. Yes?
    You are going to help me, yes?
- a vote supporting a particular plan of action or a reply accepting an invitation: 
    "Have you had any replies yet?" "Six yeses and two noes so far."
idioms:
 oh yes
 yes and no

his strong /hɪz/
- belonging to or connected with a man, boy, or male animal that has just been mentioned or is known about: 
    "Jo's got a new boyfriend." "Oh really? What's his name?"
    The bull tossed his horns.
    Did Chris tell you about his winning some money in the lottery?
- belonging to or connected with a person or animal that has just been mentioned and whose sex is not known or not considered to be important. Many people consider this use to be offensive and prefer to use him or her or their instead, or its for an animal: 
    Anyone who drives his car at 100 miles an hour is asking for trouble.
    What a cute dog! What's his name?
    People who drive their cars at 100 miles an hour are asking for trouble.
- the one(s) belonging to or connected with a man, boy, or male animal that has just been mentioned or is known about: 
    Mark just phoned to say he'd left his coat behind. Do you know if this is his?
    He introduced us to some colleagues of his.
    His is the office directly ahead of you, at the far end of the corridor.

or strong /ɔːr/
- used to connect different possibilities: 
    Is it Tuesday or Wednesday today?
    You can pay now or when you come back to pick up the paint.
    Are you listening to me or not?
    The patent was granted in (either) 1962 or 1963 - I can't quite remember which.
    It doesn't matter whether you win or lose - it's taking part that's important.
    There were ten or twelve (= approximately that number of) people in the room.
    He was just kidding - or was he (= but it is possible that he was not)?
- used after a negative verb to mean not one thing and also not another: 
    The child never smiles or laughs.
- if not: 
    You should eat more, or you'll make yourself ill.
- used to show that a word or phrase means the same as, or explains, limits, or corrects, another word or phrase: 
    Rosalind, or Roz to her friends, took the initiative.
    Things have been going very well recently. Or they were, until two days ago.
- abbreviation for
operating room US 
- written abbreviation for the US state of Oregon: used in addresses
idioms:
 or no
 or so
 or two

who /huː/
- used especially in questions as the subject or object of a verb, when asking which person or people, or when asking what someone's name is: 
    Who did this?
    Who's she?
    Who are all those people?
    She asked me if I knew who had got the job.
    Who (also formal whom) do you want to talk to?
    I don't know who to ask to the party.
- used with verbs that relate to knowing, when you want to say that something is not known: 
    "Are they going to get married?" "Who knows?" (= It is not possible to know at the moment.)
    Who can tell what will happen now?
- used as the subject or object of a verb to show which person you are referring to, or to add information about a person just mentioned. It is used for people, not things: 
    I think it was your dad who phoned.
    She's one of those people who love to be the centre of attention.
    He called James, who was a good friend as well as the family doctor.
    The other people who (also that) live in the house are really friendly.
    This is Gabriel, who I told you about.
- abbreviation for
the World Health Organization 
idioms:
 who's who

because /bɪˈkəz/
- for the reason that: 
    "Why did you do it?" "Because Carlos told me to".
    We can't go to Julia's party because we're going away that weekend.
    Just because I'm lending you my dress for tonight doesn't mean you can borrow it whenever you want to.
    Where've you been, because (= the reason I am asking is that) we haven't seen you recently?
- used before giving a short reason or explanation, especially when you think the reason or explanation is obvious or you do not want to explain more: 
    "Why does that happen?" "Because science."

broad /brɔːd/
- very wide: 
    We walked down a broad avenue lined with trees.
    He flashed a broad grin at us.
    My brother is very broad-shouldered.
- If something is a particular distance broad, it measures this distance from side to side: 
    This river is over 500 metres broad at its widest point.
    O'Connell Bridge in Dublin is famous for being broader than it is long.
- including a wide range of things; general: 
    The politician gave a broad outline of his proposals.
    The magazine covers a broad range of subjects, from sewing to psychology.
- If someone has a broad accent (= way of speaking), it is strong and noticeable, showing where they come from: 
    He spoke with a broad Australian accent.
- (of jokes or humour) very obvious and not at all difficult to understand: 
    The movie is full of broad physical comedy.
- a hint (= when you tell someone something without saying it directly) that is easy to understand
- a woman
idioms:
 broad in the beam
 in broad daylight

then /ðen/
- (at) that time (in the past or in the future): 
    I was working in the city then.
    I wanted to live in the city, but my then husband (= the man who was my husband at that time) preferred the country.
    Give it to me next week - I won't have time to read it before/until then.
    I'll call you tomorrow - I should have the details by then.
- next or after that: 
    Let me finish this job, then we'll go.
    Give her the letter to read, then she'll understand.
- in addition: 
    This is the standard model - then there's the deluxe version which costs more.
- as a result; in that case; also used as a way of joining a statement to an earlier piece of conversation: 
    Have a rest now, and then you won't be so tired tonight.
    You'll be selling your house, then?
idioms:
 from then on
 then and there
 but then (again)

say /seɪ/
say | said | said
- to pronounce words or sounds, to express a thought, opinion, or suggestion, or to state a fact or instruction: 
    Small children find it difficult to say long words.
    She said goodbye to all her friends and left.
    Ben never forgets to say "Please" and "Thank you".
    How do you say "goodbye" in French?
    I'm sorry, what did you say?
    Do you know what she said to him?
    What did they say about the house?
    "I'm going out this evening," she said.
    He said to himself (= thought), "This will never work."
    The doctors say (that) it will take him a few weeks to recover.
    She didn't say whether she was coming.
    Did she say (= tell you) why she wasn't coming?
    He said (= told me) to meet him here.
    I've got something to say to you.
    The offer was so good that I couldn't say no (= couldn't refuse).
- to think or believe: 
    People/They say (that) he's over 100.
    "It's going to be a very hot summer." "So they say (= that is what people believe)."
    She is a firm leader, too firm, some might say (= some people believe that she is too firm).
- to give (as) an opinion or suggestion about something: 
    "Who do you think will get the job?" "I'd rather not say."
    What are you saying, exactly? (= What do you mean?)
    We've been driving all day - I say (that) we start looking for a motel now.
    What do you say we sell the car? (= What do you think about selling it?)
- to show what you think without using words: 
    The look on his face said (= showed) (that) he knew what had happened.
- When something or someone is said to be a particular thing, that is what people think or believe about it, him, or her: 
    It is said (that) Latin is a difficult language to learn.
    He's said to be over 100.
- to give information in writing, numbers, or signs: 
    My watch says three o'clock.
    Can you read what that sign says?
    It says in the paper (that) they've found the man who did it.
    It says on the bottle to take three tabletsa day.
- used to express surprise or pleasure, or to attract attention to what you are about to say: 
    Say, that's really good of you!
    Say, how about going out tonight?
    I say, what a splendid hat you're wearing!
- (the right to give) an opinion about something: 
    Keep quiet for a minute and let me have my say.
    The judge usually has the final say.
idioms:
 before you can say Jack Robinson
 does what it says on the tin
 have a lot to say for yourself
 have nothing to say for yourself
 having said that
 I must say
 I'm not saying..., but...
 I wouldn't say no
 I'll say!
 it goes without saying
 it says a lot for sb/sth
 (do you) know/see what I'm saying?
 not say boo
 not to say
 (let's) say
 say your piece
 say goodbye to sth
 say no more
 say the word
 say this/that much for sb/sth
 say uncle
 say when
 says who?
 says something about sb/sth
 that is to say ...
 That's not saying much.
 there's little to be said for sth
 there's something to be said for
 to say nothing of ...
 to say the least
 what sb says, goes
 what do you have to say for yourself?
 when all is said and done
 who can say?
 you can say that again!
 you can't say fairer than that
 you don't say!
 you said it!
 have a, some, etc. say in sth

an weak /ən/
- used instead of "a" when the following word begins with a vowel sound: 
    an orange
    an honour
    an easy question
    an interesting story
- connected with or belonging to the stated place, group, or type: 
    an American
    a Canadian
    a Korean
    a Christian
    Russian literature
    Italian opera

way /weɪ/
- a route, direction, or path: 
    Do you know the way to the restaurant?
    I've only been living in Madrid for a couple of weeks so I don't really know my way around it yet.
    We'll have to stop for petrol on the way to the airport.
    Can you find your own way out of the building?
    He elbowed/pushed his way (= hit/pushed people so that he could go past them) to the front of the crowd.
    The bus stopped for us to eat lunch but within half an hour we were on our way/under way (= travelling) again.
    There's no way through here - you'll have to go round.
    They flew from Los Angeles to Toronto by way of Chicago.
    Many people have lost their way (= become lost) in the forest.
    Only local people could find their way through the maze of narrow streets.
- to travel or move to a place: 
    We slowly made our way down the river.
    It's getting late - we should make our way home soon.
- used to talk about the direction in which something is facing: 
    "Which way does the room face?" "North."
    Which way up should this box be? (= Which side should be on top?)
    The numbers are the wrong way round - it should be 71, not 17.
- happening in the opposite way: 
    I thought the older people would be more offended than the young people, but it was the other way round.
- happening in the opposite way: 
    I thought the older people would be more offended than the young people, but it was the other way around.
- used in the names of some roads: 
    Our offices are at 17 King's Way.
- a distance or a period of time: 
    We walked a long way yesterday.
    The holiday seems like it's a long way off.
    We managed to pull ourselves all the way from 12th place to first place.
    They still have a ways to go.
- a particular choice, opinion, belief, or action, especially from among several possibilities: 
    I like the way you've done your hair.
    In some/many ways it would be better if we met on Monday rather than Wednesday.
    In a way (= partly), I would rather they didn't come because it will mean extra work.
    He might have to resign or he might be demoted, but either way, his career is effectively over.
    They don't write songs the way (= as) they used to.
- the manner in which someone behaves or thinks, or in which something happens: 
    Don't worry - it's just his way.
    He looked at me in a sinister way.
    It's amazing the way she manages to stay so calm.
    The way he was shouting, you'd have thought he was badly hurt.
    To my way of thinking, they shouldn't be building so many roads.
    It's always the way at work - either I have nothing to do or I'm rushed off my feet!
- types of behaviour: 
    Over the years we've got used to his funny little ways.
- an action that can produce the result you want; a method: 
    There are many ways of solving the problem.
    That's not the way to do it - let me show you.
    That method hasn't worked, so let's try your way.
- the space needed for a particular movement or action: 
    "Sorry, am I in your way? I'll move."
    I couldn't see the stage because there was a pillar in the way (= between me and the stage).
    Make way for some new clothes by clearing out ones you never wear.
    You need to get out of the way of that car.
    She's determined to succeed and she won't let anything get/stand in her way (= prevent her).
- If someone gets or has their way, what they want happens: 
    If she doesn't get/have her (own) way, she sulks like a four-year-old.
- the bad condition or state of someone or something, especially the state of a person's health: 
    He's been in a bad way (= very ill) ever since the operation.
- used to emphasize degree or separation, especially in space or time: 
    After the third lap, she was way behind the other runners.
    She spends way too much money on clothes.
- in the direction of: 
    I think they live Birmingham way.
idioms:
 all the way
 all the way to
 (in) any way, shape, or form
 be on the way to sth
 be out of the way
 by the way
 by way of
 the easy way out
 find a way
 get sth out of the way
 give way to sth
 go your own (sweet) way
 go your own/separate way
 go all the way
 go out of your way
 have it both ways
 in no way
 make your way
 no way
 point the way
 talk your way into/out of sth
 way of life
 way to go!
 the way to a man's heart is through his stomach
 way/direction the wind blows
 ways and means
 work your way up/to the top
 wouldn't have it any other way

us strong /ʌs/
- used as the object of a verb or a preposition to refer to a group that includes the speaker and at least one other person: 
    Thank you for driving us to the station.
    Many of us in the editorial department disagree with the changes that are happening.
- (especially used in spoken English) me: 
    Give us a light, mate.
    Give us it here and I'll see if I can mend it.
- our: 
    Where've you parked us car?
- abbreviation for the United States (of America): 
    A new study of education in the US has just been published.
- belonging to or relating to the United States of America or its people: 
    When did you become a US citizen?

little /ˈlɪt.əl/
- small in size or amount: 
    It came in a little box.
    a little dog/nose/room
    A little old man came into the room.
    He gave a little smile.
    It'll only take a little while to clear up the kitchen.
- a small amount of food or drink: 
    I always like to have a little something around eleven o'clock in the morning.
- a present that is not of great value: 
    I want to buy a little something to give to Val when I visit her in hospital.
- young: 
    When you were little your hair was really curly.
    She was my little (= younger) sister and I took care of her.
    Her little boy (= her young son) isn't well.
- used to emphasize an opinion that is being given about something or someone: 
    That was a nice little suit she was wearing.
    It's not a bad little restaurant, is it?
    He's a nasty little man.
- not very important or serious: 
    I had a little problem with my car, but it's been fixed now.
    It's often the little things that count the most.
    Can I have a little word (= a short discussion about something not very important) with you?
- not much or enough: 
    There seems little hope of a ceasefire.
    They have very little money.
    There's so little choice.
- a small amount of something: 
    This sauce needs a little salt.
    With a little training she could do very well.
    Can I give you a little advice?
- a small amount: 
    I could only hear a little of what they were saying.
    He does as little as possible at work.
    There's not much flour left but you're welcome to the/what little there is.
- an amount that is not much or not enough: 
    We did very little on Sunday.
    Very little of what he said made any sense to me.
    Unfortunately, little of the artist's work has survived.
    The government has done little or nothing to help the poorest people in this country.
    The little we do know about the people who lived here suggests they had a very sophisticated society.
- slightly: 
    I was a little bit worried by what she said.
    We'll wait a little longer and then I'll phone them.
    There's only a little further to go.
- slowly or gradually: 
    Little by little she came to understand why he had behaved the way he did.
- not much: 
    She slept very little that night.
    a little-known fact
    Little did he know what lay in store for him.
- not much more or better: 
    The wine they gave us was little better than vinegar.
idioms:
 a little bird told me
 make little of sth

never /ˈnev.ər/
- not at any time or not on any occasion: 
    We've never been to Australia.
    I've never heard anything so ridiculous.
    Let us never forget those who gave their lives for their country.
    Wars never solve anything.
    He threatened to shoot, but I never thought (= did not think) he would.
    I never realized you knew my brother.
    It's never too late to start eating a healthy diet.
    "He's never 61! (= it's difficult to believe he's 61!) He looks so young."
    "You stole my drink!" "No, I never (= I didn't)."
idioms:
 as never before
 never fear!
 never mind
 never mind that
 never the twain shall meet
 that will never do
 well, I never (did)!

too /tuː/
- more than is needed or wanted; more than is suitable or enough: 
    I'm too fat.
    I can't reach the shelf - it's (a bit) too high.
    There were (far) too many people for such a small room.
    It's too hard (for me) to explain.
    It was too expensive a desk for a child's room.
    It's (all) too much (= more than I can deal with) - I can't stand it.
- used before an adjective or adverb to emphasize a negative meaning: 
    The holidays flew by all too quickly.
- used before an adjective to emphasize a positive meaning: 
    "Would you like to make a donation?" "I'd be only too pleased."
- (especially at the end of a sentence) in addition, also: 
    I'd like to come too.
    "I love chocolate." "Me too."
- used to show surprise: 
    It's a wonderful picture of light shining through trees - and by a child too!
- very, or completely: 
    He wasn't too pleased/happy when I told him about the mistake.
    My mother hasn't been too well recently.
    Thank you, you're too kind.
- used to emphasize a positive answer to a negative statement: 
    "I'm not going to school today." "You are too!"
idioms:
 in too deep
 too bad
 too good to be true
 too good to miss
 too much like hard work
 too much of a good thing

sure /ʃɔːr/
- certain; without any doubt: 
    "What's wrong with him?" "I'm not really sure."
    I'm sure (that) I left my keys on the table.
    I feel absolutely sure (that) you've made the right decision.
    It now seems sure (that) the election will result in another victory for the government.
    Shaun isn't sure whether/if he'll be able to come to the party or not.
    Is there anything you're not sure of/about?
    We arrive early to be sure of getting a good seat.
    There is only one sure way (= one way that can be trusted) of finding out the truth.
- certain or certainly: 
    I know for sure that I won't be able to go to the party.
    One thing's for sure - once the baby's born, your lives will never be the same again.
- to be very or too confident: 
    She's become much more sure of herself since she got a job.
- be confident that something is true: 
    He said that he wasn't completely sure of his facts.
- to have confidence in and trust someone: 
    Henry has only been working for us for a short while, and we're not really sure about him yet.
    You can always be sure of Kay.
- to be certain to: 
    She's sure to win.
    I want to go somewhere where we're sure to have good weather.
- to look and/or take action to be certain that something happens, is true, etc.: 
    Make sure you lock the door when you go out.
- If you have a sure knowledge or understanding of something, you know or understand it very well: 
    I don't think he has a very sure understanding of the situation.
- certainly: 
    "Do you want to come swimming with us?" "Sure."
    "Will you help me with this?" "Sure I will."
    I sure am hungry.
    "I can't do it!" "Sure you can. I'll help you."
- said when someone has thanked you: 
    "Thanks for helping us out." "Sure, any time."
idioms:
 (as) sure as eggs is eggs
 (as) sure as hell
 a sure thing
 sure enough
 sure thing
 to be sure

more /mɔːr/
- a larger or extra number or amount: 
    Would you like some more food?
    The doctors can't cope with any more patients.
    Add some more cream to the sauce.
    You need to listen more and talk less!
    More people live in the capital than in the whole of the rest of the country.
    We spent more time on the last job than usual.
    The noise was more than I could bear.
    It was a hundred times more fun than I'd expected.
    She's more of a poet than a novelist.
    Bring as much food as you can - the more, the better.
- used to form the comparative of many adjectives and adverbs: 
    She couldn't be more beautiful.
    Let's find a more sensible way of doing it.
    You couldn't be more wrong.
    He finds physics far/much more difficult than other science subjects.
    Play that last section more passionately.
- used to emphasize the large size of something: 
    More than 20,000 demonstrators crowded into the square.
- increasingly: 
    It gets more and more difficult to understand what is going on.
- used to say that when an action or event continues, there will be a particular result: 
    The more he drank, the more violent he became.
    The more he insisted he was innocent, the less they seemed to believe him.
idioms:
 all the more
 any more
 couldn't agree/disagree more
 more often than not
 more or less
 more than
 the more the merrier
 not/no more than
 that's more like it!

over /ˈəʊ.vər/
- above or higher than something else, sometimes so that one thing covers the other; above: 
    The sign over the door said "Exit".
    She held the umbrella over both of us.
    Helicopters dropped leaflets over the city.
    I put my hands over my eyes/ears because I couldn't bear to watch/listen.
    I couldn't hear what she was saying over the noise of the planes taking off (= the planes were louder than her voice).
- in a position that is covering something: 
    Put a clean cloth over the cakes while they cool.
    I put a shawl over my shoulders.
- across from one side to the other, especially by going up and then down: 
    She jumped over the gate.
    The road goes over the mountains, not through a tunnel.
    She is always chatting with her neighbour over the garden fence.
    From the top of the tower you could see for miles over the city.
    Tanks travel over the most difficult ground.
- falling down from somewhere: 
    The coin rolled over the edge of the table.
    Harold jumped out of the car just before it went over the cliff.
- falling because of stepping on something: 
    She tripped over a toy lying on the path.
- more than: 
    Most of the carpets cost/are over $5,000.
    Children over the age of twelve (= older than twelve) pay the full price.
    I value quality of life over money.
- increasing to further than a particular limit or point: 
    They are already $25 million over budget.
- in addition to: 
    They receive extra money over and above the usual welfare payments.
- on the other side of: 
    There's a bar over the road we could go to.
    The story continues over the page.
- (referring to a cause of interest, worry, discussion, etc.) connected with or about: 
    There's no point in arguing over something so unimportant.
    I need time to talk/think over your proposal (= to discuss/consider it carefully).
    The legal battle was over who should have custody of the child.
- during something, or while doing something: 
    I was in Seattle over the summer.
    Shall we discuss it over lunch/over a drink?
    They took/spent an hour over lunch (= their meal lasted an hour).
    It's fascinating to watch how a baby changes and develops over time (= as time passes).
- to feel physically or mentally better after an illness or an upsetting experience: 
    It takes you a while to get over an illness like that.
    His girlfriend broke up with him last year and he's not over her yet.
    He's not fully recovered, but he's over the worst (= has experienced the worst stage of the illness and is now improving).
- in control of or teaching someone or something: 
    A good teacher has an easy authority over a class.
    She's a sales manager but she has a regional sales director over (= with a higher rank than) her.
    The victory over the French at Waterloo was Wellington's greatest triumph.
- using: 
    They spoke over the phone.
    We heard the news over the radio.
- sometimes used when talking about a calculation in which one number is divided by another number: 
    40 over 7 is roughly 6.
- from a higher to a lower position; down: 
    The lamp fell over and broke.
    He was run/knocked over by a taxi.
    The little boy fell over and started to cry.
- across; from one side or place to another: 
    She leaned over and kissed me.
    A fighter plane flew over.
    Why don't you come over (= come to my house) for dinner on Thursday?
    A friend of mine from France is over visiting us this week (= a friend came from France and is staying with us).
    Now we're going over to (= there will be a broadcast from) Wembley for commentary on the Cup Final.
    Come over here - it's warmer.
    Who's that man over there?
- used to describe the way an object moves or is moved so that a different part of it is facing up: 
    She turned another page over.
    The dog rolled over onto its back.
    The children rolled over and over (= turned over many times) down the gentle slope.
- changing or exchanging position: 
    Would you mind changing/swapping those plates over?
    She changed over to editing from marketing.
    Why should we hand over the money to them?
    I've done everything I can - now it's over to you (= it's your turn to take action).
- above or higher than something else, sometimes so that one thing covers the other: 
    A fighter plane flew over.
    A man came to paint over (= cover with paint) the cracks in the wall.
- more than a particular amount or level: 
    People who are 65 years old and over can get half-price tickets.
- (especially of an event) finished: 
    I'll be glad when the competition is over.
    I used to have a thriving business and a happy marriage, but that's all over now.
- completely finished: 
    She gets unpleasant tasks over and done with as quickly as possible.
- extra; not used: 
    I have some euros left over from the last time I was in France.
    When all the guests had gone, we realized there was lots of food over.
- again or repeatedly: 
    You ruined it - now I'll have to do it over!
- said when you are talking to someone by radio, to mean that you have finished speaking and will wait for their answer: 
    "This is flight 595X. Do you read me? Over."
- said when you are talking to someone by radio in order to end the conversation: 
    "Thank you, control tower. Over and out."
- (in cricket) a set of six bowls (= throws) from the same end of the field
- too much or more than usual: 
    The children got over-excited (= too excited).
- more than: 
    a club for the over-50s
- across: 
    Of course, the overland route is much slower than going by air.
- above: 
    She was knocked off her bicycle by an overhanging branch.
idioms:
 all over somewhere
 be all over sb
 over and over (again)
 it isn't over until the fat lady sings

our /aʊər/
- of or belonging to us: 
    We bought our house several years ago.
    He walked off and left us on our own.
    Drugs are one of the greatest threats in our society.
    There's no point in our buying a new car this year.

sorry /ˈsɒr.i/
- feeling sadness, sympathy, or disappointment, especially because something unpleasant has happened or been done: 
    I'm just sorry about all the trouble I've caused her.
    He'd really upset her and he didn't seem at all sorry.
    I'm sorry (that) you had such a difficult journey.
    We were both sorry to hear you've been ill again.
    I feel so sorry for their kids - it must be really hard for them.
- to feel sad because you have a problem and you feel that it is not fair that you are suffering so much: 
    He sounded very sorry for himself on the phone.
- used to show that something that must be said causes sadness or disappointment: 
    I'm sorry to say that the project's funding has been cancelled.
    Most people who start the exercise class do, I'm sorry to say, give up within the first two weeks.
- used to say that you wish you had not done what you have done, especially when you want to be polite to someone you have done something bad to: 
    Oh, I'm sorry - I didn't see you there.
    Tom, I'm so sorry about last night - it was all my fault.
    I've said I'm sorry.
- used to show politeness when refusing something or disagreeing: 
    I'm sorry, but I think you've made a mistake.
    I'm sorry, I can't agree.
- a bad condition or situation: 
    He was a sorry sight when he got home - soaking and covered in mud.
    It's a sorry situation when there isn't any food in the house.
- used when apologizing for something: 
    "That's my foot you're stepping on." "Sorry!"
- used to show politeness when refusing something or disagreeing: 
    Sorry, you can't go in there.
- used when politely asking someone to repeat something or when politely interrupting someone: 
    "He's late." "Sorry?" "I said he's late."
    Sorry, could you just say that last sentence again please?

where /weər/
- to, at, or in what place: 
    Where does he live?
    "I put it on your desk." "Where? I can't see it."
    Where are we going?
    Now where did I put my glasses?
    Where's the party being held?
    Could you tell me where Barker Drive is, please?
    Where did you put my umbrella?
    I've left my keys somewhere and I don't know where.
    You found my diary - where on earth was it?
    I've been meaning to ask you where you get your hair cut.
    Bradford, where Bren comes from, has a lot of good curry restaurants.
    She lived in Rome for a couple of years, where she taught English.
    You see where Mira is standing? Well, he's behind her.
    I like to have him next to me where I can keep an eye on him.
    I read it somewhere - I don't know where (= in which book, newspaper, etc.).
- used when referring to a particular stage in a process or activity: 
    You reach a point in any project where you just want to get the thing finished.
    I've reached the stage where I just don't care any more.
- in what situation: 
    You're not available on the 12th and Andrew can't make the 20th - so where does that leave us?
    Where do you see yourself five years from now?
idioms:
 be where it's at
 know/see where sb is coming from

let /let/
let | present participle letting | past tense and past participle let
- to allow something to happen or someone to do something by not doing anything to stop an action or by giving your permission: 
    She wanted to go but her parents wouldn't let her.
    He decided to let his hair grow long.
    Let your shoes dry completely before putting them on.
    I'm letting you stay up late, just this once.
    Don't let it worry you.
    If he needs money, let him (= he should) earn it!
- used to show that you accept what is going to happen, although you do not like it: 
    Let it rain - it won't spoil our afternoon.
- used to say that you wish something to happen very much: 
    Oh, please let him get the job!
- used to express a suggestion or request that includes you and the other person or people: 
    Let's go out to dinner.
    Let us consider all the possibilities.
    Let's not (UK also don't let's) argue.
- to allow your house or land to be lived in or used by someone else in exchange for a regular payment: 
    They are letting their house (out) for the summer.
    He's let his flat to a young couple.
    She has a room to let in her house.
- used after a negative statement to emphasize how unlikely a situation is because something much more likely has never happened: 
    Some people never even read a newspaper, let alone a book.
- (in tennis or similar games) a situation in which the ball touches the net as it crosses it, so that you have to play the point again
- without being prevented from doing something: 
    People will be able to travel from country to country without let or hindrance.
- the act of allowing someone to use your house, land, etc. in exchange for regular payments: 
    a five-year let on a flat
- small, not very important: 
    piglet
idioms:
 let sb be
 let go
 let sb go
 let sth go/pass
 let yourself go
 let your hair down
 let sb have it
 let sb in on a secret
 let sb know
 let sth slip
 let sth go
 let it all hang out
 let it be known
 let it lie
 let rip/fly
 let the side down
 let's face it
 let's see
phrasal verbs:
 let sb down
 let sth down
 let sb/sth in
 let yourself in for sth
 let sb in on sth
 let sth into sth
 let sb off
 let sth off
 let on
 let sb/sth out
 let sth out
 let out
 let up

maybe /ˈmeɪ.bi/
- used to show that something is possible or that something might be true: 
    Maybe they'll come tomorrow.
    Maybe you were right after all.
- used to show that a number or amount is approximate: 
    There were 200, maybe 300, refugees on the boat.
- used to politely suggest or ask for something: 
    Maybe Ted would like to go.
    Maybe we should start again.
- used to avoid giving a clear or certain answer to a question: 
    "Are you coming to Kelly's party?" "Maybe."
- used to mean that something is a possible explanation for why something else happened: 
    "Why were you chosen for the team and not me?" "Maybe it's because I've been to more practices than you."

down /daʊn/
- in or towards a low or lower position, from a higher one: 
    Is this lift going down?
    Don't look down! You'll get dizzy.
    The sun's going down and it'll be dark soon.
    The space capsule came down in the ocean.
    I bent down to look under the bed.
- moving from above and onto a surface: 
    Just as I was sitting down to watch TV, the phone rang.
    Why don't you lie down on the sofa for a while?
    This box is really heavy - can we put it down (on the floor) for a minute?
    Get down off that table immediately!
    The terrorists forced everybody to lie face down (= with the front part of the body below) on the floor.
- firmly in place or into position: 
    I put the loose floorboard back and nailed it down.
    He held my arms down by my sides.
- in or towards a lower level, a smaller amount, or a simpler state: 
    The rate of inflation is finally going down.
    Turn the TV down - it's way too loud!
    The nurse bandaged my sprained ankle to keep the swelling down (= to limit the swelling).
    If you wait a few months, the price will come down.
    The Cavaliers were 20 points down (= losing by 20 points) at half-time.
    The number of students at this school has gone down from 500 last year to 410.
- If you burn, cut, or knock something or someone down, you cause it, him, or her to fall to the ground, usually damaged, destroyed, or injured: 
    The house burned down many years ago.
    These trees will have to be cut down to make way for the new road.
    She was knocked down by a car and killed instantly.
- in writing or on paper: 
    I'll write it down now so I won't forget.
    Do you have it down in writing/on paper, or was it just a verbal agreement?
    I've got/put you down for (= have written that you want) three tickets each.
    The police officers were taking down the names of witnesses.
- used, especially with prepositions, to emphasize that a place is at some distance from you or from somewhere considered to be central: 
    I'll meet you down at the gym after work.
    He has a house down by the harbour.
    I'm going down to the shop to buy some milk.
- in or towards the south: 
    It's much warmer down (in the) south.
    My parents live down in Florida, but they come up to Chicago every summer.
    We're moving down to London.
- from an older person to a younger one: 
    The necklace has been passed/handed down through seven generations.
    These myths have come down to us from prehistoric times.
- inside your stomach: 
    You'll feel better once you've got some hot soup down you.
    He's getting weak because he can't keep anything down.
- at the time of buying: 
    I gave him $1,000 down, and paid the rest in instalments.
- in or towards a low or lower position, from a higher one: 
    I slid down the hill.
    Aikiko fell down some stairs and broke her wrist.
- along: 
    We drove down the highway as far as Atlanta.
    Her office is down the corridor on the right.
    They sailed the boat down the river (= towards the sea).
- to: 
    I went down the pub with my mates.
- to cause something or someone to fall to the ground: 
    We downed three enemy planes with our missiles.
    The ice storm has downed trees and power lines all over the region.
- to eat or drink something quickly: 
    He'd downed four beers before I'd finished one.
- to defeat someone, especially in sport: 
    The Yankees downed the Red Sox 7–0.
- unhappy; unable to feel excited or energetic about anything: 
    She's been really down since her husband left.
    I've been (feeling) a little bit down this week.
- (of a system or machine, especially a computer) not in operation or not working, usually only for a limited period of time: 
    The network will be down for an hour for routine maintenance.
    The whole system's gone down.
- small soft feathers, especially those from a young bird: 
    goose/duck down
    a down jacket/pillow/sleeping bag (= a jacket/pillow/sleeping bag filled with down)
- very soft thin hair
- to dislike someone, often unfairly: 
    Why do you have a down on him? I think he seems really nice.
- at or towards the end or the lower or worse part: 
    downhill
    downriver
    down-market
    the downside
idioms:
 be down on sb
 be down to sb
 come/go down in the world
 down sb's way
 down under
 (right) down to
 down with...!
 one, two, etc. down, one, two etc. to go.
 down the drain
 down the toilet
 down the road/line/track
 down tools
 kick/hit sb when he/she is down

man /mæn/
man | plural men uk


Your browser doesn't support HTML5 audio






/men/ us


Your browser doesn't support HTML5 audio







- an adult male human being: 
    a young/tall man
    men and women
    the man in the green jacket
    the men's champion in the 400 metres
    Steve can solve anything - the man's a genius.
- a male employee: 
    The gas company said they would send some men to fix the leak.
    The man from the newspaper wrote some positive things about the movie.
    Our man in Washington sent us the news by fax yesterday.
- male members of the armed forces who are not officers: 
    The military expedition was made up of 100 officers and men.
    He ordered his men to fire.
    One of the men is here to see you, sir.
- a male servant: 
    My man will show you to the door.
- a man typical of or involved in marketing, advertising, etc.
- a husband or male sexual partner: 
    I hear she's got a new man.
    Is there a man in her life?
- used when talking to someone, especially a man: 
    Hey, man, how are you doing?
- If a man and a woman are man and wife, they are married to each other.
- a person or group that has power or authority, for example the police
- the human race: 
    Man is still far more intelligent than the smartest robot.
    Man is rapidly destroying the earth.
    This is one of the most dangerous substances known to man.
    Try to imagine what life must have been like for Neolithic man 10,000 years ago.
- a person of either sex: 
    All men are equal in the sight of the law.
- any of the objects that are moved or played with in games such as chess
- To man something such as a machine or vehicle is to be present in order to operate it: 
    The phones are manned 24 hours a day.
    Barricades were erected against the advancing government troops and they were manned throughout the night.
    Man the pumps!
- used to express a strong emotion: 
    Man, we had a good time - we drank all through the night!
- having the nationality or job mentioned, or (of a group or vehicle) containing the number of people mentioned: 
    an Irishman
    a policeman
    businessmen
    a five-man team
    a two-man helicopter
idioms:
 as one man
 it's every man for himself
 make a man (out) of sb
 man and boy
 be man enough to do sth
 the man in the moon
 (as) man to man
 man's best friend
 man's inhumanity to man
 a man's man
 man on!
 to a man
 you the man!
phrasal verbs:
 man up

very /ˈver.i/
- (used to add emphasis to an adjective or adverb) to a great degree or extremely: 
    The situation is very serious.
    We're very, very sorry about what's happened.
    Think about it very carefully before deciding.
    How very childish of her to refuse to speak to me!
    "Are you tired?" "No, not very."
    Thank you very much.
    "Did you enjoy the play?" "Very much so." (= Yes.)
    I can't very well (= it would not be right for me to) say sorry when I didn't do anything wrong.
- used to add force to a superlative adjective or to the adjectives "own" or "same": 
    This is the very best chocolate cake I've ever tasted.
    She always leaves her homework to the very last moment.
    We now have our very own library in the village.
    This is the very same (= exactly the same) place we sat the last time we came.
- (used to add emphasis to a noun) exact or particular: 
    This is the very book I've been looking for all month.
    You're the very person we need for the job.
    What ended up happening was the very thing we feared the most.
    The letter was sent on Monday from Berlin and arrived in Hamburg the very same/next day.
    The very idea/thought of having her friends to stay fills me with dread.
- used to describe or emphasize the furthest point of something: 
    He found the piece of paper he had lost at the very bottom of the pile.
    We were at the very end of the queue, so we didn't manage to get any tickets.
idioms:
 all very well/fine/good
 very good
 very well
 be the very thing

by /baɪ/
- used to show the person or thing that does something: 
    The motorcycle was driven by a tiny bald man.
    We were amazed by what she told us.
    I'm reading some short stories (written) by Chekhov.
    The book was translated by a well-known author.
    I felt frightened by the anger in his voice.
- used to show how something is done: 
    They travelled across Europe by train/car.
    She did the decorating (all) by herself (= alone, without help from anyone).
    We went in by (= through) the front door.
    Do you want to be paid in cash or by cheque?
    He learned English by listening to the radio.
    Suddenly, she grabbed him by the arm (= took hold of this part of his body).
    I refuse to live by (= following) their rules.
- near or at the side of: 
    A small child stood sullenly by her side.
    He wanted to keep her close by him always.
    The policewoman walked by (= past) them without saying a word.
- not later than; at or before: 
    She had promised to be back by five o'clock.
    The application must be in by the 31st to be accepted.
    By the time I got to the station the train had already gone.
- used to show measurements or amounts: 
    Our office floor space measured twelve metres by ten (= was twelve metres in one direction and ten in the other).
    Their wages were increased by 15 percent.
    Freelance workers are paid by the hour (= for every hour they work).
    These phones have sold by the thousand (= several thousand have been sold).
- used to say that something increases or changes with every minute, hour, day, etc. that passes: 
    The death toll from the hurricane was climbing minute by minute/by the minute.
    The credibility of the campaign has deterioriated month by month/by the month.
- describing or showing what happens every minute, hour, etc.: 
    a minute-by-minute timeline of the incident 
    The book paints a detailed, week-by-week portrait of his father's illness.
- during: 
    We travelled by night and rested by day.
- used when describing someone's character, job, etc.: 
    She is, by nature, a sunny, positive kind of person.
    He's a plumber by trade.
    She was, by profession, a lawyer.
- If something is all right/fine by someone, they agree that it can happen: 
    "I'd rather go later." "That's fine by me."
    If it's all right by you, I'd like to leave now.
- at the side of or (in distance or time) past: 
    The policewoman walked by without saying a word.
    Why don't you call in for a cup of coffee next time you're passing by?
    The years flew by.
idioms:
 by and by

anything /ˈen.i.θɪŋ/
- used in questions and negatives to mean "something": 
    Is there anything I can do to help?
    Was there anything else you wanted to say or is that it?
    Do you have anything less expensive?
    Let me know if anything happens, won't you?
    I didn't know anything about computers till I started this job.
    I was looking for a birthday present for my mother but I didn't find anything suitable.
    Did you notice anything strange about him?
    Spending Christmas with him and his brother - I can't imagine anything worse!
    If he eats anything with wheat in it he's very sick.
    "What did you do over the weekend?" "I don't think we did anything much."
- any event, act, object, or situation: 
    He said I could order anything on the menu.
    She could be anything (= any age) between 30 and 40.
idioms:
 anything but
 anything like
 as... as anything
 for anything (in the world)

much /mʌtʃ/
much | more | most
- a large amount or to a large degree: 
    I don't earn much money.
    You haven't said much, Joan - what do you think?
    I like her very much.
    I don't think there's much to be gained by catching an earlier flight.
    The children never eat (very) much, but they seem healthy.
    "Is there any wine left?" "Not much."
    There's not/nothing much to do around here.
    How much (= what amount of) sugar do you take in your coffee?
    How much do these shoes cost?
    I spend too much on clothes.
    I don't have as much time as (= I have less time than) I would like for visiting my friends.
    Because of the rain, we weren't able to spend much of the day on the beach.
    Have you seen much of Polly (= often seen her) recently?
    I'd very much like to visit them sometime.
    One day I hope I'll be able to do as much (= the same amount) for you as you've done for me.
    Things around here are much as always/as usual (= have not changed a lot).
    The two schools are much the same (= very similar).
    Much to our surprise, (= we were very surprised that) they accepted our offer.
    I'm not much good at knitting (= do not do it very well).
    This is a much (= often) discussed issue.
    Blake has become a much (= greatly) changed person since his car accident.
    I've been feeling much healthier (= a lot more healthy) since I became a vegetarian.
    The repairs to our car cost much more than we were expecting.
    I'm very much aware of the problem.
    She's much the best person for the job (= she is certainly better than everyone else).
    I would much rather have my baby at home than in hospital.
    She is as much a friend to me as a mother (= although she is my mother, she is also a friend).
- a far larger amount of something than you want or need: 
    You've drunk much too much to drive.
- more than someone can deal with: 
    I can't take care of six children at my age - it's too much.
- too extreme or not reasonable: 
    I think it's a bit much for you to expect me to do all the cleaning.
    She wore an expensive suit and diamonds, which was a bit much for such a casual restaurant.
- used at the end of a sentence to emphasize what you have just said: 
    When he saw all the food on my plate, he said "Hungry much?"
- (something) of good quality: 
    He's not much to look at, but he has a wonderful personality.
    I've never been much of a dancer (= good at dancing, or interested in doing it).
    There's not/nothing much on TV tonight.
idioms:
 as much
 as much again
 as much as
 as much as you can do
 much as
 much less
 not go much on sth
 not/nothing much
 not so much
 not so much sth as sth
 so much
 so much for sth

any /ˈen.i/
- some, or even the smallest amount or number of: 
    Is there any of that lemon cake left?
    There was hardly any food left by the time we got there.
    "Is there some butter I could use?" "No, there's some margarine but there isn't any butter."
    "Is there any more soup?" "No, I'm afraid there isn't any left."
    I haven't seen any of his movies.
    I don't expect we'll have any more trouble from him.
    I go to church for weddings but not for any other reason.
    Are you sure there isn't any way of solving this problem?
- one of or each of a particular type of person or thing when it is not important which: 
    Any food would be better than nothing at all.
    "Which of these cakes may I eat?" "Any."
    The offer was that you could have any three items of clothing you liked for $30.
    On Sundays I just wear any old thing (= anything) that I happen to find lying around.
    Any of you should be able to answer this question.
    Any idiot with a basic knowledge of French should be able to book a hotel room in Paris.
    Any advice (= whatever advice) that you can give me would be greatly appreciated.
    Any minute/day/time now (= very soon) there's going to be a massive quarrel between those two.
    There were a lot of computers at the exhibition, any (one) of which would have suited me perfectly.
- at all or in the least: 
    Can't you run any faster?
    Those trousers don't look any different from the others.
    Are you feeling any better after your illness?
    Houses in this area used to be a real bargain, but they're not cheap any more (= now).
    This radio isn't any good (= it's useless) - I'll have to buy another.
    I used to walk to work every day, but not any longer (= not now).
    I tried talking him out of it, but that didn't help any - he still left home.

life /laɪf/
life | plural lives
- the period between birth and death, or the experience or state of being alive: 
    Life's too short to worry about money!
    I'm not sure I want to spend the rest of my life with him.
    Unfortunately, accidents are part of life.
    He went mad towards the end of his life.
    Cats are supposed to have nine lives.
    He doesn't know what he really wants in/out of life.
    The accident changed my whole outlook on life.
    He lost his life (= died suddenly because of a violent event or accident) in the Great War.
    A simple mixture of glucose and water can save lives in many parts of the world.
    He ran off with her life savings (= all the money she had saved).
- a way of living or a particular part of someone's life: 
    her family/private/sex life
    my working life
    We interviewed senior politicians, famous writers, and others in public life.
    Drugs and violence are deeply rooted in American life.
    I left home at 16 to see life (= have different experiences with a lot of people in lots of places).
    Teaching has been her life (= the most important and enjoyable thing in her life).
- the period for which a machine or organization lasts: 
    The newer batteries have a much longer life.
    Careful use will prolong the life of your machine.
    The legislation won't be passed during the life of the present parliament.
- the quality that makes people, animals, and plants different from objects, substances, and things that are dead: 
    The doctor could find no sign of life in the old man's body.
    I looked through the window but I couldn't see any signs of life (= people moving).
- energy or enthusiasm: 
    She's so full of life.
- everything that is alive: 
    human/marine/plant life
- In art, if you work from life, you paint, draw, etc. real people or objects, usually while they are in front of you rather than from memory: 
    life drawing classes
- especially in children's games, one of the limited number of times that you can lose, but still continue playing: 
    Every time the little man gets hit, you lose a life.
- the life story of a person written by someone else: 
    What moved him to write a life of John O'Hara?
- to make something more real or exciting: 
    It's always been an interesting period in history and this film really brought it to life.
- to become more real or exciting: 
    The game really came to life in the second half.
- for the whole of a person's life: 
    I believe marriage is for life.
- to be willing to die in order to defend or support someone or something: 
    They were ready to give their lives for their country.
- If you believe in life after death, you believe that people continue to exist in some form after they die.
- to completely change how or where you live: 
    She decided to start a new life in Australia.
idioms:
 be (all) part of life's rich tapestry/pageant
 be one/another of life's great mysteries
 for the life of you
 get a life!
 give your life to sth
 how's life (treating you)?
 lead/live the life of Riley
 the life and soul of the party
 the man/woman in sb's life
 not on your life!
 scare/frighten the life out of sb
 the school/university of life
 take your (own) life
 take sb's life
 take your life in your hands
 that's life!
 this is the life!
 to the life

even /ˈiː.vən/
- used to show that something is surprising, unusual, unexpected, or extreme: 
    I don't even know where it is.
    Everyone I know likes the smell of bacon - even Mike does and he's a vegetarian.
    We were all on time - even Chris and he's usually late for everything.
    It's a very difficult job - it might even take a year to finish it.
    "I never cry." "Not even when you hurt yourself really badly?"
    Even with a load of electronic gadgetry, you still need some musical ability to write a successful song.
- at the same time as: 
    I tried to reason with him, but even as I started to explain what had happened he stood up to leave.
- used to say that if something is the case or not, the result is the same: 
    Even if you take a taxi, you'll still miss your train.
- despite something: 
    I've thought about it so much, but even now I can't believe how lucky I was to survive the accident.
    I gave Jim very clear instructions, but even then he managed to make a mess of it.
- despite what has just been said: 
    I had a terrible headache, but even so I went to the concert.
    An immediate interest cut might give a small boost to the economy. Even so, any recovery is likely to be very slow.
- although: 
    Even though he left school at 16, he still managed to become prime minister.
- used to emphasize a comparison: 
    The next 36 hours will be even colder with snow showers becoming more widespread.
    Any devaluation of the pound would make it even more difficult to keep inflation low.
- used when you want to be more exact or detailed about something you have just said: 
    I find some of his habits somewhat unpleasant, disgusting even.
    She has always been very kind to me, even generous on occasion.
- flat and smooth, or on the same level: 
    We resurfaced the floor because it wasn't even.
- continuous or regular: 
    You should try to work at an even rate instead of taking it easy one day and working flat out the next.
- equal or equally balanced: 
    Both sides played well - it was a very even contest.
    The weather forecast said that there's an even chance of thunderstorms tonight (= that it is equally likely that there will or will not be storms).
- equally likely to happen as to not happen: 
    The chances of her getting the job are about evens.
- used to refer to a situation in which you risk money on something where the risk is equally balanced, and will pay back twice the amount of money that is paid if it is successful: 
    an even bet
    If I were betting I'd take even money on United.
- forming a whole number that can be divided exactly by two: 
    6 is an even number and 7 is an odd number.
- to make two things equal: 
    Sheila was awarded a scholarship in chemistry, and now her brother has evened the score with a scholarship in economics.
    The whisky industry is campaigning for the taxes on different alcoholic drinks to be evened up.
idioms:
 get even with sb
 on an even keel
phrasal verbs:
 even (sth) out

off /ɒf/
- away from a place or position, especially the present place, position, or time: 
    He drove off at the most incredible speed.
    Keep the dog on the lead or he'll just run off.
    Someone ran off with (= took) my pen.
    She's off to Canada next week.
    I saw her off (= said goodbye) at the station.
    Finals are so far off that I'm not even thinking about them yet.
    I'm off now - see you tomorrow.
    If we can get off (= leave) early tomorrow morning we'll avoid most of the traffic.
- used with actions in which something is removed or removes itself from another thing: 
    Take your jacket off.
    One of my buttons has come off.
    She had all her hair cut off.
- (especially of machines, electrical devices, lights, etc.) not operating because of not being switched on: 
    Make sure the computers are all off before you go home.
    Turn/Switch the light/engine/television off.
- (of money) taken away from the original price: 
    You can get some money off if you pay cash.
    There's 40 percent off this week on all winter coats.
    There was $40 or $50 off most jackets in the store.
- not at work; at home or on holiday: 
    I'm going to take/have some time off to work on my house.
    She was off sick last week.
    He's off at the moment - can I get him to call you back?
- in such a way as to be separated: 
    The police have shut/closed off all streets leading to the city.
    The area in the park where the kids play is fenced off for safety reasons.
- in such a way as to be completely absent, especially because of having been used or killed: 
    It says on the bottle that it kills off all known germs.
    It'll take some time before she manages to pay off all her debts.
    The good thing about exercise is that it burns off calories.
    Between us we managed to finish off several bottles of wine.
- in such a way as to get rid of something: 
    We went out for a while to walk off some of our dinner.
    He's gone to sleep off a headache.
    There's no point in getting upset about what he said - you just have to laugh it off.
- used to form nouns referring to a situation in which two or more people or teams compete against each other to see who is the winner: 
    the BBC series, the Great British Bake Off
    Audience applause determines the winner of each dance-off. 
- down or away from a place, position, or time, especially the present place, position, or time: 
    There was a "Keep off the grass" sign.
    All the berries had dropped off the tree.
    He fell off his bike.
    We're still a long way off our target of $30,000.
    I hope she knows where to get off (= leave) the bus/train.
    How far off finishing the project are we? (= How much more is there to do?)
    We've been working on the flat for six months now but we're still a long way off finishing.
    We're not far off (= we are quite near) London now.
- used with actions in which something is removed or removes itself from another thing: 
    I can't get the lid off this jar.
    Has anyone taken a book off my desk?
    Could you cut me a small piece off that big white cheese?
    Take your feet off that seat, young man!
    I don't like taking money off you (= asking you for money)!
    Get off me! (= Stop touching me!)
    I got the knife off of him before he ran away.
- not liking or taking something or someone: 
    He's been off his food ever since he had the stomach upset.
    She's well enough to be off the medicine now.
    She's been off drugs for a year now.
    The doctor says he can come off the tablets.
    I used to love coffee but I've gone off it (= stopped liking it) recently.
- near to: 
    He lives just off the main road.
    It's an island off the east coast of Spain.
- (of an arranged event) stopped or given up: 
    The wedding's off - she's decided she's too young to settle down.
    It's all off (= the relationship is over) between Kim and Mike.
- having a particular amount or number, especially of money: 
    Andrew must be so well-off (= rich) by now.
    I think they're fairly badly-off (= poor) now that David has lost his job.
    I'm quite well off for (= have a lot of) sweaters.
    How are you off for money? (= do you have enough?)
- below the usual standard or rate: 
    I'm having an off day today - I just can't seem to do anything right!
- (of food and drink) no longer fresh or good to eat or drink because of being too old: 
    This milk smells off.
    I'd better eat this cheese before it goes off.
- (of food in a restaurant) not available at that particular time: 
    I'm sorry, sir, the salmon is off.
- not thinking or worrying about other people's feelings; rude: 
    He didn't even call her on her birthday - I thought that was a bit off.
- the act of leaving somewhere: 
    Are we ready for the off, then?
- to kill someone: 
    They offed him and dumped his body in the swamp.
idioms:
 be/go off on one
 off with sth

please /pliːz/
- used to make a request more polite: 
    Could I have two coffees and a tea, please?
    Please remember to close the windows before you leave.
- used to add force to a request or demand: 
    Please, David, put the knife down.
    Oh, please. Do shut up!
- used especially by children to a teacher or other adult in order to get their attention: 
    Please, Miss, I know the answer!
- used when accepting something politely or enthusiastically: 
    "More potatoes?" "Please."
    "May I bring my husband?" "Please do."
    "Would you like dessert?" "Oh, yes please."
- to make someone feel happy or satisfied, or to give someone pleasure: 
    I only got married to please my parents.
    He was always a good boy, very friendly and eager to please.
    It always pleases me to see a well-designed book!
- to want, like, or choose, when used with words such as "whatever", "whoever", and "anywhere": 
    She thinks she can just do whatever/as she pleases.
    I shall go out with whoever I please.
- used to express surprise and anger: 
    They want £200, if you please, just to replace a couple of broken windows!
- used to make a request more polite: 
    Take your seats, ladies and gentlemen, if you please.
idioms:
 please God
 please yourself

thank /θæŋk/
- to express to someone that you are pleased about or are grateful for something that they have done: 
    He thanked me for taking him home.
idioms:
 have sb to thank (for sth)
 I'll thank you to do sth
 thank sb for sth
 thank your lucky stars
 thank God, goodness, heaven(s), etc.
 won't thank you for doing sth

only /ˈəʊn.li/
- used to show that there is a single one or very few of something, or that there are no others: 
    I was the only person on the train.
    Is this really the only way to do it?
    The only thing that matters is that the baby is healthy.
    It was the only thing I could do under the circumstances.
    Rita was the only person to complain.
- used to show that something is limited to not more than, or is not anything other than, the people, things, amount, or activity stated: 
    At present these televisions are only available in Japan.
    Only Sue and Mark bothered to turn up for the meeting.
    This club is for members only.
    Only an idiot would do that.
    These shoes only cost $50.
    Don't worry - it's only a scratch.
    I was only joking.
    I was only trying to help.
    I only arrived half an hour ago.
    She spoke to me only a few minutes ago on the phone.
    It's only four o'clock and it's already getting dark.
    "Who's there?" "It's only me (= it is not someone you should worry about). I've locked myself out."
    It's only natural that you should worry about your children.
- used to refer to something that happens almost immediately after something else: 
    People were leaving and I'd only just arrived.
    We'd only just set off when the car broke down.
- almost not: 
    There was only just enough food to go round.
    We got there in time for our flight, but only just (= but we almost did not).
- used to say that two related things are true or happened, especially when this is surprising or shocking: 
    Not only did he turn up late, he also forgot his books.
    If this project fails, it will affect not only our department, but also the whole organization.
- If you say you have only (got) to do something, you mean that it is all you need to do in order to achieve something else: 
    If you want any help, you have only to ask.
    You only have to look at her face to see that she's not well.
- used when saying that something unpleasant will happen as a result of an action or a failure to act: 
    If you don't do something about it now it will only get worse.
- used to show that you feel sorry about something that cannot happen when explaining why it cannot happen: 
    I'd love to go to Australia. I only wish I could afford to.
- used to emphasize what you are hoping or wishing for: 
    I only hope you know what you're doing.
    I only wish that they would keep in touch more regularly.
- used to show that you think someone has done something silly: 
    She's only locked herself out of her flat again!
- used to show what is the single or main reason why something mentioned in the first part of the sentence cannot be performed or is not completely true: 
    I'd invite Frances to the party, only (= but I will not because) I don't want her husband to come.
    I'd call him myself, only (= but I cannot because) I'm at work all day.
    I'd be happy to do it for you, only (= but) don't expect it to be done before next week.
    This fabric is similar to wool, only (= except that it is) cheaper.
idioms:
 if only
 only to do sth

help /help/
- to make it possible or easier for someone to do something, by doing part of the work yourself or by providing advice, money, support, etc.: 
    How can I help you?
    I wonder if you could help me - I'd like some information about flights to New Zealand.
    My dad said he would help with the costs of (= give part of the cost of) buying a house.
    The $10,000 loan from the bank helped her (to) start her own business.
    I feel that learning English will help (= improve) my chances of promotion at work.
    Nothing can help her now (= her situation is too bad for anyone to be able to improve it).
- If something helps a difficult or painful situation, it improves it or makes it easier or less painful: 
    The morphine didn't seem to help (the pain).
- If something or someone helps to do something, that thing or person is one of several reasons for it happening: 
    The drought has helped (to) make this a disastrous year for Somalia.
- If you can't/couldn't help something, such as acting in a particular way or making a particular remark, you are/were not able to control or stop it: 
    It was awful, but I couldn't help laughing.
    "Stop giggling!" "I can't help it!"
    I can't help thinking (= my true feeling is that) she'd be better off without him.
- to give something to someone: 
    Can I help you to some more soup?
- to take something for yourself: 
    "Might I have some more bread?" "Please, help yourself!"
- the act of helping another person: 
    Do you need any help with those boxes?
    Her parents gave her some help with her bank loan (= paid some of it).
- something or someone that helps: 
    Having a satnav would be a help.
    He was a great help (to me) while my husband was away.
- someone who is employed to clean and do other small jobs: 
    a home help
- a person or the people employed to work in someone's home doing cleaning, cooking, caring for children, etc.
- shouted by a person who is asking for someone to come and save them from a dangerous situation
idioms:
 give/lend sb a helping hand
 God help sb
 it can't be helped
 so help me (God)
 there's no help for it
phrasal verbs:
 help (sb) out

two /tuː/
- the number 2: 
    They have two houses.
    He'll be two (years old) in February.
idioms:
 be in two minds
 be two of a kind
 have two left feet
 it takes two to tango
 (there's) no two ways about it.
 or two
 put two and two together
 put two and two together and make five
 that makes two of us
 two can play at that game
 your two cents' worth
 two's company, three's a crowd

talk /tɔːk/
- to say words aloud; to speak to someone: 
    We were just talking about Gareth's new girlfriend.
    My little girl has just started to talk.
    She talks to her mother on the phone every week.
- to discuss something with someone, often to try to find a solution to a disagreement: 
    The two sides have agreed to talk.
- to discuss a particular subject: 
    Whenever they're together, they talk politics.
- to give a lecture on a subject: 
    The next speaker will be talking about endangered insects.
- a conversation between two people, often about a particular subject: 
    I asked him to have a talk with his mother about his plan.
- a speech given to a group of people to teach or tell them about a particular subject: 
    He gave a talk about/on his visit to Malaysia.
- serious and formal discussions on an important subject, usually intended to produce decisions or agreements: 
    Talks were held in Madrid about the fuel crisis.
- the action of talking about what might happen or be true, or the subject people are talking about: 
    Talk won't get us anywhere.
    The talk/Her talk was all about the wedding.
idioms:
 be like talking to a brick wall
 give sb something to talk about
 look who's talking!
 talk sb's head off
 talk a blue streak
 talk about ...
 talk dirty
 talk nonsense
 talk sense
 talk shop
 talk some sense into sb
 talk smack
 talk the hind leg(s) off a donkey
 talk the talk
 talk the talk ... walk the walk
 talk through your hat
 talk tough
 talk turkey
 talk your way out of sth
 talking of sb/sth
 be all talk (and no action)
 be the talk of somewhere
 be the talk of the town
phrasal verbs:
 talk about sth/doing sth
 talk at sb
 talk around sth
 talk back
 talk sth down
 talk sb down
 talk down to sb
 talk sb into sth
 talk sth out
 talk sb out of sth
 talk sth over
 talk sb round
 talk sth through
 talk sth up

people /ˈpiː.pəl/
- men, women, and children: 
    Many people never do any exercise.
    We've invited 30 people to our party.
- used to refer to everyone, or informally to the group that you are speaking to: 
    People will think you've gone mad.
    People like to be made to feel important.
    Now that we've discussed our problems, are people happy with the decisions we've made?
- men and women who are involved in a particular type of work: 
    We'll have to get the people at the city council to look at these plans.
    Most of her friends are media people.
- the large number of ordinary men and women who do not have positions of power in society: 
    She claims to be the voice of the people.
    The president has lost the support of the people.
    the people's Princess
- the people someone is related to: 
    Her people come from Scotland originally.
- all the men, women, and children who live in a particular country, or who have the same culture or language: 
    The French are known as a food-loving people.
- a society: 
    Customs similar to this one are found among many peoples of the world.
idioms:
 man/woman of the people
 of all people

god /ɡɒd/
- a spirit or being believed to control some part of the universe or life and often worshipped for doing so, or something that represents this spirit or being: 
    the ancient Greek gods and goddesses
- someone who is very important to you, who you admire very much, and who strongly influences you: 
    His most devoted fans think of him as a sort of god.
- the seats in a theatre that are at the highest level and the furthest distance from the stage
- (in some religions) the being who made the universe and is believed to have an effect on all things: 
    Do you believe in God?
idioms:
 (oh my) God!
 God bless (you)!
 God helps those who help themselves
 God knows
 God only knows
 God willing
 hope/wish/swear to God
 thank God
 there is a God!
 those whom the gods love die young

still /stɪl/
- continuing to happen or continuing to be done: 
    I'm still hungry.
    I still haven't finished writing my essay.
    There is still no news about the hostages.
    Do you still work for the government?
    Hope is fading that the missing child is still alive.
    There's still time for us to get to the cinema before the film starts.
- despite that: 
    You may not approve of what he did, but he's still your brother.
    I know you don't like her, but you still don't have to be so rude to her.
    Even though she doesn't really have the time, she still offered to help.
- to an even greater degree or in an even greater amount: 
    The number of people killed in the explosion is likely to rise still higher.
    The company is hoping to extend its market still further.
    Still more snow fell overnight.
    I'll meet you at the theatre. No, better still, let's meet for a drink first.
    I'm worried that his car has broken down, or worse still, that he's had an accident.
    Why do you have to tell me still (= even) more lies?
- staying in the same position; not moving: 
    Children find it difficult to sit/stand/stay still for very long.
    I can't brush your hair if you don't keep/hold still.
    She sat perfectly still while I took her photograph.
    The air was so still (= there was so little wind) that not even the leaves were moving.
    She dived into the still (= calm and not flowing) water of the lake.
- A still drink is one that is not fizzy (= with bubbles): 
    Would you like still or sparkling water?
- to make something stop moving or become more calm: 
    He tried to still the swaying of the hammock.
    She cuddled her baby to still its cries.
- a photograph of a piece of action in a film
- a time when it is quiet and calm: 
    In the still of the night, nothing moved.
- a piece of equipment used for making alcohol
idioms:
 still waters run deep

wait /weɪt/
- to allow time to go by, especially while staying in one place without doing very much, until someone comes, until something that you are expecting happens or until you can do something: 
    I waited for her outside while she went in to see the doctor.
    The dentist kept me waiting for ages.
    There were a lot of people waiting to use the phone.
- to be done or to happen at a later time: 
    The meeting will have to wait until tomorrow, because I'm too busy now.
    The paperwork can't wait until tomorrow (= is urgent and must be done now).
- used on signs to mean vehicles are not allowed to park, even for short periods of time: 
    The sign by the side of the road said "no waiting!"
- a period of time when you stay in one place until someone comes, or something happens, or until you can do something: 
    We had a three-hour wait before we could see the doctor.
    The long wait for the doctor/to see the doctor really made me anxious.
idioms:
 can't wait
 wait your turn
 wait a minute/moment/second
 wait and see
 wait at table(s)
 wait for it
 wait in the wings
 wait till/until ...
 (just) you wait
 lie in wait
phrasal verbs:
 wait around
 wait behind
 wait for sb/sth
 wait for sb
 wait sth for sb
 wait in
 wait on sb/sth
 wait on sb
 wait on sth
 wait sth out
 wait up

into /ˈɪn.tuː/
- to the inside or middle of a place, container, area, etc.: 
    Would you put the jar back into the cupboard for me, please?
    Let's go into the garden.
    Stop running around and get into bed!
    I can't get into these trousers any more. They're far too small for me.
- used to show when a person or thing is changing from one form or condition to another: 
    Peel the cucumber and chop it into small cubes.
    There was a series of explosions and the van burst into flames (= started to burn violently).
    Her novels have been translated into 19 languages.
    We're planning to turn the smallest bedroom into an office.
- used to show movement that involves something touching something else with a lot of force but without moving inside it: 
    He's always walking into things when he doesn't have his glasses on.
- in the direction of something or someone: 
    She was looking straight into his eyes.
- involving or about something: 
    an inquiry into the cause of the accident
- used when referring to the division of one number by another number: 
    What's 5 into 125?
- enthusiastic about or interested in: 
    Jackie's really into classical music.

find /faɪnd/
find | found | found
- to discover, especially where a thing or person is, either unexpectedly or by searching, or to discover where to get or how to achieve something: 
    I've just found a ten-pound note in my pocket.
    I couldn't find Andrew's phone number.
    You'll find the knives and forks in the left-hand drawer.
    Researchers are hoping to find a cure for the disease.
    Has he found himself a place to live yet?
    She was found unconscious and bleeding.
    The study found that men who were married lived longer than those who were not.
    Do you think they'll ever find a way of bringing peace to the region?
    We're really struggling to find (= get) enough money to pay the rent.
    After years of abuse from her husband, she eventually found the courage to leave him.
    I wish I could find (the) time to do more reading.
- to realize that something exists or has happened: 
    We came home to find (that) the cat had had kittens.
    I found (that) I could easily swim a mile.
- to exist or be present somewhere: 
    Many plant and animal species are found only in the rainforests.
    Vitamin C is found in citrus fruit.
- to get somewhere you are trying to reach: 
    I had a map but I still couldn't find my way back to the hotel.
- to criticize someone or something: 
    She's always finding fault with the way he works.
- to realize that you are in a particular situation or place, or doing a particular thing, when you did not intend to: 
    He'll find himself with no friends at all if he carries on behaving this way.
    We fell asleep on the train and woke up to find ourselves in Calais.
- If you go somewhere or do something to find yourself, you go there or do it to discover your true character: 
    Simon spent a year in an ashram in India to find himself.
- to think or feel a particular way about someone or something: 
    Do you find John difficult to talk to?
    I don't find him an easy person to get on with.
    She doesn't find it easy to talk about her problems.
    I find living in the city very stressful.
- to make a judgment in a law court: 
    In a unanimous verdict, the jury found him guilty/not guilty of the murder.
- a good or valuable thing or a special person that has been discovered but was not known about before: 
    This café's quite a find - I had no idea there was anywhere like it around here.
    A recent find of ancient artefacts is on display at the local museum.
idioms:
 find your feet
 find it in your heart to do sth
 find your voice
phrasal verbs:
 find (sth) out
 find sb out

again /əˈɡen/
- one more time: 
    Could you spell your name again, please?
    If he does it again I'll have to tell him.
    Deborah's late again.
    Throw it away and start again.
- back to the original place or condition: 
    We went to Edinburgh and back again all in one day.
    Get some rest and you'll soon be well again.
- If something happens once again, it has already happened several times before: 
    You are reminded once again of the author's love of the sea.
- said after an unpleasant experience to show that you do not intend to do it again: 
    He drove me back home last night. Never again!
- If something happens yet again, it has already happened many times before: 
    I'm afraid it's been delayed yet again.
- repeatedly: 
    I've told you again and again not to do that.
- If you do something all over again, you start again from the beginning: 
    It's already taken me two hours - I don't want to have to do it all over again.
- in addition to the amount we know about or have mentioned already: 
    They are paid half as much again as we are.
idioms:
 then again

thing /θɪŋ/
- used to refer in an approximate way to an object or to avoid naming it: 
    What's that thing over there?
    There are some nice things in the shops this summer.
    I don't eat sweet things (= sweet food).
    How does this stupid thing work?
- your possessions or a particular set of your possessions: 
    All their things were destroyed in the fire.
    Bring your swimming things if the weather's nice.
- a particular set of objects: 
    Let me help you clear away the tea things (= cups, plates, etc. that are used for having tea).
- used to refer in an approximate way to an idea, subject, event, action, etc.: 
    That was an unkind thing to say.
    I've got so many things to do I don't know where to start.
    Your information is correct but you left out one thing.
    "What's the matter?" "It's this insurance thing. I'm really worried about it."
- the exact fact, object, idea, event, etc.: 
    The article was exactly the thing I needed for my research.
- something that is not false or a copy: 
    The fire alarm goes off accidentally so often that when it's the real thing (= when it really does happen) nobody will take any notice.
- the same: 
    Training isn't the same thing as education.
- everything that has been planned or discussed: 
    Let's call the whole thing off.
    I want to forget the whole thing.
- more than everything else: 
    I value my freedom above all things.
- in every situation or subject; in everything: 
    Be true to yourself in all things.
- said before describing what it is that you especially want to know: 
    If there's one thing I want to know, it's where he goes on Thursday afternoons.
- used to refer to the general situation: 
    Things have been going very well recently.
- If it's a good thing that something happened, it is lucky that it happened: 
    It's a good thing (that) we booked our tickets early.
- in the present situation: 
    The way things are, I'll never have this ready by June.
- used instead of "anything" or "everything" to emphasize what you are saying: 
    Don't worry about a thing (= anything). I'll take care of it.
- not anything: 
    After the guests had gone, there wasn't a thing left to eat.
- to have no clothes that are suitable for an occasion: 
    I'm going to a wedding on Saturday and I don't have a thing to wear.
- you cannot do anything: 
    He broke his promise and there wasn't a thing we could do about it.
- used to talk about a particular action, agreement, etc.: 
    I went by plane, a thing I hardly ever do.
    One thing you'll have to agree to is working in the evenings.
- used to make noun phrases with particular adjectives and adverbs: 
    The first thing (to do) is to write your name at the top of the paper.
- used to introduce a reason for something: 
    "Why won't you come to New York with me?" "For one thing, I don't like flying, and for another, I can't afford it."
- used after an adjective to refer to a person or animal with love or sympathy: 
    The poor things were kept in small cages without room to move.
    I can't believe you won - you lucky thing!
idioms:
 a close/near thing
 all things being equal
 all things considered
 all things to all people
 and another thing
 a thing of the past
 a thing or two
 be hearing/imagining/seeing things
 be one thing after another
 be on to a good thing
 do your own thing
 sb/sth does things to you
 have a thing about sth/sb
 how are things (with you)?
 if it's not one thing, it's another
 is that even a thing?
 just the thing
 make a big thing (out) of sth
 not the done thing
 (just) one of those things
 one thing leads to another
 take things easy
 the done thing
 the last thing you want, need, etc.
 the (latest) thing
 the thing is
 things that go bump in the night
 what with one thing and another

call /kɔːl/
- to give someone or something a name, or to know or address someone by a particular name: 
    They've called the twins Edward and Thomas.
    What's that actor called that we saw in the film last night?
    His real name is Jonathan, but they've always called him Johnny.
    What's her new novel called?
    I wish he wouldn't keep calling me "dear" - it's so patronizing!
- If a person, especially a child, calls someone names, he or she addresses that person with a name that is intended to be offensive: 
    Tom's worried that if he wears glasses at school the other children will call him names.
- to use a phone to talk to someone: 
    He called (you) last night when you were out.
    She called (me) this morning at the office and we had a brief chat.
    I've been calling all morning but I can't get through.
    Do you think we should call the police?
- to make a phone call that is paid for by the person who receives it
- to consider someone or something to be: 
    He knows a lot of people, but only one or two that he'd call close friends.
    One sandwich and a lettuce leaf - I don't call that a meal!
    I'm not calling you a liar - I'm just suggesting that you misunderstood the facts of the situation.
- to consider something as belonging to you: 
    I don't aspire to anything very grand - I just want a place I can call my own.
- to say something in a loud voice, especially in order to attract someone's attention, or (of animals) to make a loud, high sound, especially to another animal: 
    Someone in the crowd called (out) his name.
    Did you call?
    "Hey, you! Come over here!" she called.
    The blackbird called to its mate.
- to ask people in a meeting to stop talking so that the meeting can continue: 
    She called for order/called the meeting to order.
- to ask someone to come to you: 
    She called me over to where she was sitting.
    I keep the bedroom door open in case the children call (for) me in the night.
    I was called to an emergency meeting this morning.
    At school she was always being called into the headteacher's office.
- to visit someone, especially for a short time: 
    The electrician must have called (round) this morning when we were out - there's a note on the door mat.
- to decide officially to have a particular event or take particular action: 
    The managing director has called a meeting to discuss pay levels.
    The papers are predicting that the prime minister will call an election in the spring.
    It's reckoned that the unions will call a strike if management will not agree to their demands.
    They had to call a halt to (= end) the match because of the heavy rain.
- the act of using the phone: 
    I got a call from an old college friend last night.
    If there are any calls for me, could you write them down next to the phone?
    I've just got a couple of calls to make.
    That decorator you called about painting the house - did he ever return your call?
    The radio station received a lot of calls complaining about the show's bad language.
    Before six o'clock, calls are charged at peak rate.
- the sound an animal makes or the sound of someone shouting something: 
    The whale has a very distinctive call.
    She could hear calls for help from inside the burning building.
    I'll be in the next room, so give me a call if you need any help.
- the fact of people wanting or needing a particular thing: 
    There's not much call for fur coats these days.
    I certainly don't think there's any call for that sort of language, young lady!
- a demand for something to happen: 
    Management have so far ignored the union's calls for stricter safety regulations.
- a short visit, especially an official one made by someone whose job is connected with health: 
    Doctor Seward is out on a call this morning.
    The nurse has got a few calls to make this afternoon.
    I thought I'd pay a call on (= visit) an old friend of mine this weekend.
- a decision: 
    It was a tough call, but eventually I decided to give up my job.
    The decision to extend Army tours from one year to 15 months was a good call.
    More investment? That's got to be your call - you're the one that's paying!
idioms:
 call sb's bluff
 call your shot
 call a spade a spade
 call into question
 call it a day
 call it a night
 call it quits
 call the shots
 sth is calling you
 call of nature
 a close call
 on call
phrasal verbs:
 call back
 call sb back
 call by
 call for sb
 call for sth
 call forth sth
 call sb in
 call sth in
 call sb/sth off
 call sth off
 call (in) on sb
 call on sb
 call on sth
 call (sth) out
 call sb out
 call sb up
 call sth up

told /təʊld/
- past simple and past participle of
tell 
idioms:
 all told

great /ɡreɪt/
- large in amount, size, or degree: 
    an enormous great hole
    The issue is of great importance to voters.
    The improvement in water standards over the last 50 years has been very great.
    A great many people would agree.
    The great majority of (= almost all) people would agree.
    It gives us great pleasure to announce the engagement of our daughter Maria.
    It is with great sorrow that I inform you of the death of our director.
    I have great sympathy for you.
    I spent a great deal of time there.
- used in names, especially to mean large or important: 
    a Great Dane (= large type of dog)
    Catherine the Great
    the Great Wall of China
    the Great Bear (= group of stars)
- larger in number or amount than: 
    X must be equal to or greater than 10.
- famous, powerful, or important as one of a particular type: 
    a great politician/leader/artist/man/woman
    This is one of Rembrandt's greatest paintings.
    Who do you think is the greatest modern novelist?
- extreme: 
    great success/difficulty
- very good: 
    a great idea
    We had a great time last night at the party.
    It's great to see you after all this time!
    "I'll lend you the car if you like." "Great! Thanks a lot!"
    "What's your new teacher like?" "Oh, he's great."
    "How are you feeling now?" "Great."
- used to mean that something is very bad: 
    Oh great ! That's all I need - more bills!
- used to emphasize the meaning of another word: 
    a great big spider
    a great long queue
    You great idiot!
    Pat's a great friend of mine.
- a famous person in a particular area of activity: 
    former tennis great Arthur Ashe
    Woody Allen, one of the all-time greats of the cinema
- used with a word for a family member to mean one generation away from that member: 
    your great-grandmother (= the grandmother of one of your parents)
    your great-grandson (= the grandson of your child)
idioms:
 be a great one for sth
 go great guns
 great minds think alike
 no great shakes
 the great and the good

before /bɪˈfɔːr/
- at or during a time earlier than (the thing mentioned): 
    You should always wash your hands before meals.
    Before leaving he said goodbye to each of them.
    She's always up before dawn.
    Before he could reach the door, she quickly closed it.
    Before we make a decision, does anyone want to say anything else?
    She had to give the doorman a tip before he would help her with her suitcases (= he would not do it until she had given him a tip).
- until (the event mentioned): 
    It was an hour before the police arrived.
- in the past: 
    He said he had never seen her before.
    I feel as though I've been here before.
- in front of: 
    The letter K comes before L in the English alphabet.
    Many mothers put their children's needs before their own.
    We have the whole weekend before us - what do you want to do?
    He stood up before a whole roomful of people, and asked her to marry him.
- If a place is before another place, you will arrive at it first when you are travelling towards the second place: 
    The bus stop is just before the school.
- If something is before someone or before a group of people, it will be formally considered or examined by that person or group: 
    The proposal before the committee is that we try and reduce our spending by ten percent.
    The men appeared before the judge yesterday.

better /ˈbet.ər/
- comparative of 
good : of a higher standard, or more suitable, pleasing, or effective than other things or people: 
    He stood near the front to get a better view.
    Relations between the two countries have never been better.
    It's much better to have a small, cosy room than a big, cold one.
    The book was better than I expected.
    She is much better at tennis than I am.
    It is far (= much) better to save some of your money than to spend it all at once.
    Fresh vegetables are better for you (= more beneficial to you) than canned ones.
    The longer you keep this wine, the better it tastes (= it has a better flavour if you keep it for a long time).
    The bed was hard, but it was better than nothing (= than not having a bed).
- If you are or get better after an illness or injury, you are healthy again: 
    I hope you get better soon.
- to improve: 
    After the ceasefire, the situation in the capital got better.
    She's getting much better at pronouncing English words.
- in a more suitable, pleasing, or satisfactory way, or to a greater degree: 
    The next time he took the test, he was better prepared.
    They did much better (= were more successful) in the second half of the game.
    I like this jacket much better than (= I prefer it to) the other one.
    She knows her way around the college better than I do.
- to a greater degree, when used as the comparative of adjectives beginning with "good" or "well": 
    She is better-looking (= more attractive) than her brother.
    He is much better known for his poetry than his songwriting.
- used to say that a particular choice would be more satisfactory: 
    Why don't you give her a call or, better still, go and see her?
- used to give advice or to make a threat: 
    You'd better (= you should) go home now before the rain starts.
    He'd better pay me back that money he owes me soon, or else.
- it would be wiser: 
    You would do better to bring the plants inside when the weather gets colder.
- something that is of a higher standard than something else: 
    He ran the 100 metres in 9.91 seconds, and I have not seen better (= a faster result) this year.
- behaviour, work, or treatment that is more suitable, pleasing, or satisfactory: 
    You shouldn't be so mean to your mother - she deserves better.
    I didn't think he would go out without telling me - I expected better of him.
- people of a higher rank or social position than you: 
    As children, we were taught not to argue with our elders and betters.
- to improve a situation: 
    The organization was established to better conditions for the disabled.
- to improve your social position, often by getting a better job or education: 
    He tried to better himself by taking evening classes.
idioms:
 be better than sex
 better late than never
 better luck next time
 better safe than sorry
 better the devil you know (than the devil you don't)
 go one better
 be no better than (a) sth
 for better or (for) worse
 for the better
 get the better of sb
 so much the better

ever /ˈev.ər/
- at any time: 
    Nothing ever happens here in the evening.
    Have you ever been to London?
    If you're ever/If ever you're in Rio, do give me a call.
    He hardly ever (= almost never) washes the dishes and he rarely, if ever, (= probably never) does any cleaning.
    When there's a James Bond movie on TV, I never ever miss it.
    If ever there was a cause for celebration, this peace treaty was it.
    The smell is worse than ever.
    I thought she was famous, but none of my friends have ever heard of her.
- better, bigger, etc. than at any time before: 
    We are spending more than ever on education.
- as big, fast, etc. as at any time before: 
    The restaurants are as good as ever and no more expensive.
- continuously: 
    United's record in cup competitions grows ever more impressive.
    The ever-increasing demand for private cars could be halted by more investment in public transport.
    Nuclear devastation was an ever-present threat.
    Susan and Guy moved to the country, where they lived happily ever after.
- continuously since that time: 
    He's been depressed ever since he got divorced.
- in the same way as always: 
    As ever, I was the last to find out.
- used at the end of a letter as a way of saying goodbye to someone you know well: 
    Yours ever, Yvonne.
- used for emphasizing an adjective: 
    The orchestra is to perform its last ever concert/last concert ever tomorrow night at the Albert Hall.
    Yesterday the company announced its first ever fall in profits.
    Was she ever a fast runner! (= She was a very fast runner!)
    "Are you looking forward to your vacation?" "Am I ever!" (= Yes, very much!)
- in questions, used to emphasize the question word: 
    How ever did he manage that?
    What ever have you done to him?
    Why ever would anyone/Why would anyone ever want to hurt her?
- very/a very: 
    She's ever so pretty.
    She's ever such a pretty girl.
idioms:
 if ever there was one

night /naɪt/
- the part of every 24-hour period when it is dark because there is very little light from the sun: 
    It gets cold at night.
    I slept really badly last night.
    I spent the night at Ted's.
    He took the night ferry/train.
- the period of time between the late afternoon and going to bed; the evening: 
    Let's go out on Saturday night.
    We've eaten out every night this week.
    She's a singer in a bar by night and a secretary by day.
- the evening on which a special event happens: 
    When's the last night of your show?
    The first/opening night of her new movie was a great success.
- used as another way of saying good night, usually by or to children
- on one evening recently: 
    I saw Naomi at the gym the other night.
- an evening spent at a restaurant, theatre, etc. rather than staying at home: 
    I need a night out with the girls this weekend.
    Let's have a night out on Saturday.
- a friendly way of saying goodbye when you leave someone in the evening or before going to bed or to sleep: 
    Night, sweetheart! Sleep well!
idioms:
 night after night
 night and day
 a night on the town

than strong /ðæn/
- used to join two parts of a comparison: 
    My son is a lot taller than my daughter.
    You always walk faster than I do!
    You're earlier than usual.
- used with "more" or "less" to compare numbers or amounts: 
    I spent more than I intended to.
    It cost less than I expected.

away /əˈweɪ/
- somewhere else, or to or in a different place, position, or situation: 
    Ms Watson is away on holiday until the end of the week.
    Keep/Stay away from him.
    Just go away and leave me alone!
    The sight was so horrible that I had to look/turn away.
    The recent flood has swept away the footbridge.
    I've given away all my old clothes to charity.
    Would you like your burger to eat in or take away?
- at a distance (of or from here): 
    How far away is the station?
    The office is a half-hour drive away.
    We live five kilometres away from each other.
    Life's so much quieter away from the city.
    Oh, it's miles away (= a long distance from here).
- in or into the usual or a suitable place, especially one that can be closed: 
    Would you put the ice cream away in the freezer?
    My grandparents had £800 hidden away in an old shoe box.
- gradually until mostly or completely gone: 
    All the snow had melted away.
    The music faded away as the procession moved slowly up the street.
    We used to while away (= spend) the weekends at my aunt's house in the country.
    We danced the night away (= until the night was over).
- in the future: 
    My English exam's only a week away and I haven't even started to prepare.
- continuously or repeatedly, or in a busy way: 
    I was still writing away when the exam finished.
    Chris has been working away in the garden all day.
    We were chatting away at the back and didn't hear what he said.
- An away match or game is played at an opposing team's sports ground: 
    We lost the away game but won both home games.
    Everton unveiled their new yellow-and-blue away strip (= clothing worn by a team at away games).

first /ˈfɜːst/
- (a person or thing) coming before all others in order, time, amount, quality, or importance: 
    This is my first visit to New York.
    I fell in love with him the first time I saw him.
    I'm always nervous for the first few minutes of an exam.
    Today is the first (of August).
- in or at the beginning (of a series of events): 
    The trousers shrank when I washed them, but they weren't really big enough in the first place.
    Thankfully, he wasn't hurt, but he never should have been there in the first place.
- as the first attempt or effort: 
    Enquiries about the post should be addressed in the first instance to the personnel manager.
- to a very great degree or of an extremely good kind: 
    It is a diplomatic scandal of the first order.
    White is a writer of the first order.
- at the earliest time in the day: 
    He said he'd call back first thing tomorrow.
- before all others in order, time, amount, quality, or importance: 
    Tom came first in the race.
    Who finished first?
    If you get home first, can you feed the cat?
- for the first time: 
    When did you first meet each other?
    The company was still very small when I first joined.
- used at the beginning of a list of things you want to say or write: 
    First, I want to thank my parents.
    First (of all) (= before anything else), I'd like to ask you a few questions.
    First off (= before anything else), let me introduce myself.
- the first person or thing to do or be something, or the first person or thing mentioned: 
    She was one of the first to arrive.
    He is the first (= very willing) to admit that much of his success is due to his good looks.
    Tonight sees the first of three documentaries about cancer.
- from the beginning: 
    I've opposed the proposal from the very first.
- something that has never happened or been done before: 
    This new surgical technique is a first for (= has never been done before in) the hospital.
- the best possible undergraduate university degree you can get in the UK and some other countries: 
    She has a first in English from Newcastle University.
- (in a vehicle) the gear used when starting to drive forward or when driving up a steep hill
- → 
first base 
idioms:
 be in the first flush of
 first things first
 at first
 come first
 first among equals
 first and foremost
 first and last
 first come, first served
 put sb/sth first

believe /bɪˈliːv/
- to think that something is true, correct, or real: 
    Strangely, no one believed us when we told them we'd been visited by a creature from Mars.
    He believes that all children are born with equal intelligence.
    She's arriving tomorrow, I believe.
    "Is she coming alone?" "We believe not/so (= we think she is not/is)."
    I believe her to be the finest violinist in the world.
    All the crew are missing, believed dead.
- to not believe that something is true: 
    He told me she was just a friend, but I don't believe a word of it!
- said when telling someone about something that is true, although it seems unlikely: 
    He's upstairs doing his homework, believe it or not.
- said when emphasizing that something is true: 
    Believe me, I was scared !
- something that you say to emphasize that something is obviously not true: 
    He said the car in front backed into him, and if you believe that, you'll believe anything!
- to pretend or imagine: 
    Let's make believe (that) we're pirates.
idioms:
 believe sth when you see it
 not believe your eyes/ears
 not believe your luck
phrasal verbs:
 believe in sth
 believe in sb

fine /faɪn/
- good or good enough; healthy and well: 
    I felt terrible last night but I feel fine this morning.
    The apartments are very small, which is fine for one person.
    "Are you all right?" "Everything's just fine, thanks."
    "I'll come to your place at eight." "Fine. See you then."
- excellent or much better than average: 
    purveyors of fine wines and gourmet food
    The world's finest collection of Impressionist paintings is housed in the Musée d'Orsay in Paris.
    This building is the finest example of its type.
- very thin or in very small pieces or drops: 
    The baby's head was covered in fine blond hair.
    The eruption had covered the town with a fine layer of ash.
    Apply a fine line of highlighter along the middle of your top lip.
    She has inherited her mother's fine (= delicate and beautiful) features.
- very exact and delicate, or needing to be done, treated, or considered very carefully: 
    I understood in general what she was talking about, but some of the finer details/points were beyond me.
- sunny and dry: 
    The forecast said it would be fine and dry today.
- bad or not convenient: 
    That's a fine (= very unpleasant) thing to say about your father after all he's done for you!
    He picked a fine time to leave us.
- an amount of money that has to be paid as a punishment for not obeying a rule or law: 
    The maximum penalty for the offence is a $1,000 fine.
    If found guilty, he faces six months in jail and a heavy (= severe) fine.
- to charge someone an amount of money as a punishment for not obeying a rule or law: 
    Drivers who exceed the speed limit can expect to be fined heavily.
    They fined him £100 for using threatening behaviour.
- in a satisfactory way: 
    "Will a loan of $500 be sufficient?" "That will suit me fine."
    It was working fine yesterday.
idioms:
 a fine line
 have sth down to a fine art
 not to put too fine a point on

home /həʊm/
- the house, apartment, etc. where you live, especially with your family: 
    The senator has two homes - an apartment in Washington and a house in Colorado.
    He was living on the streets for three months, and his home was a cardboard box.
    Call me at home after four o'clock.
    women who decide to stay at home and look after their children
    He left home (= stopped living with his parents) when he was 23.
    More and more couples are setting up home together without getting married.
- a house, apartment, etc. when it is considered as property that you can buy or sell: 
    luxury/starter homes
- the type of family you come from: 
    We had a happy home.
    children from a broken home (= from a family in which the parents had separated)
- a place where people or animals live and are cared for by people who are not their relations or owners: 
    a children's home/an old people's home/a dogs' home
    He spent his early years in a home.
- someone's or something's place of origin, or the place where a person feels they belong: 
    I live in London, but my home (= where I was born) is in Greece.
    I was actually born in New Zealand, but I've lived in Hong Kong for so long that it feels like home now.
- your own country or your own area: 
    She loves France, but she misses home.
    At home we call this "lardy cake".
    I wonder what they're doing back at home.
- If a sports team are/play at home, they play on their own sports field.
- at or to your house or the place where you live: 
    Don't worry, I'll be home soon.
    I'm sorry, he's not home right now.
    The kids were home alone.
    She decided to give up and go home.
    He came home as the dawn was breaking.
    Josh was tired so we took him home.
    I took home a couple of books to read.
    I'll bring everyone home after the party.
    When you get home late you don't feel like cooking.
    I hope you made it home safely last night? 
    women who decide to stay home and care for their children
- in or to the country or area where you come from: 
    We pray all our troops will come home safely.
    I wonder what they're doing back home.
    Back home we call this jelly.
- relating to the house, flat, etc. where someone lives: 
    home ownership
    home improvements/maintenance
    home prices
- done at home, or intended to be used at home: 
    home cooking
    home-brewed beer
    a home computer
    my home telephone number
- relating to your family or your life at home: 
    His home life is affecting his work.
    students who have a difficult home situation
- connected with or done in your own country: 
    His books were a success in his home country/market, but failed to find an audience abroad.
- relating to the place where a team is based and plays a lot of its games: 
    the home team/side
    a home ground 
    a home match/game
    the home strip (= clothing worn by a team when they play a home match)
    home advantage (= the improved chance of success that playing at home gives to a team) 
idioms:
 be/feel at home
 home from home
 make yourself at home
 be home and dry
 be home free
 bring sth home (to sb)
 come home to sb
 drive/hammer sth home

after /ˈɑːf.tər/
- following in time, place, or order: 
    Let's go for a walk after breakfast.
    Some people believe in life after death.
    Her name came after mine on the list.
    There's a good film on the day after tomorrow.
    She waited until well after midnight.
    It's a quarter after four.
    She just keeps on working, day after day, week after week (= continuously).
    We've had meeting after meeting (= many meetings) to discuss this point.
    Jessie seemed very small after (= in comparison with) Michael's children.
    After (= despite) everything I've done for you, is this the way you treat me?
    After (= because of) what she did to me, I'll never trust her again.
    The children have to learn to tidy up after themselves (= after they have made things untidy).
    She slammed the door after (= behind) her.
    We ran after (= followed) him, but he escaped.
    Could you lock up after you (= when you leave), please?
- to be looking for someone or something or trying to find or get him, her, or it: 
    The police are after him.
    I'm after a tie to go with this shirt.
    I'm sure she's after my husband.
    He's after Jane's job (= wants it for himself).
- used to say politely that someone can go in front of you or serve themselves with food before you: 
    "Can I pour you some coffee?" "Oh no, after you."
- typical of or similar to the style of: 
    a painting after Titian
    a concerto after Mozart
- used when giving someone or something the same name as another person or thing: 
    He was named Mark after his grandfather.
- later than someone or something else: 
    Hilary got here at midday and Nick arrived soon after.
    I can't go next week - how about the week after (= the following week)?
    She got back at 4.30 and went to see Emilie after (= after she got back).
- at a time that is later than another event: 
    Three months after they moved out, the house was still empty.
    Soon/shortly after we set off, the car started to make a strange noise.
    I went to the post office straight/immediately after I left you.
- coming after: 
    an after-dinner speech
    an after-hours club
    after-sales service
idioms:
 after all

last /lɑːst/
- (the person or thing) after everyone or everything else: 
    I hate being the last one to arrive at a meeting.
    Our house is the last one on the left before the traffic lights.
    The Mets will surely finish the season in last place (= at the lowest rank of their division).
    I know Johnson finished last in the race, but who was second to last (= the one before the one at the end)?
    I don't know why he bothers to bet - his horses always come in last.
    At the last moment (= as late as possible) he changed his mind.
    He always leaves important decisions to the last (possible) moment (= as late as possible).
- finally: 
    I've finished my essay at last!
    At long last the government is starting to listen to our problems.
- the least expected or wanted person or thing: 
    Three extra people to feed - that's the last thing I need!
    The last thing I wanted was to make you unhappy.
    Matthew is the last person I'd expect to be interested in dance.
    He's the last person I'd trust with my keys.
- at the latest time in the day: 
    I'll switch on the washing machine last thing so it'll be finished when I get up in the morning.
- If you say that it is the last time you will do something, you mean that you will never do it again: 
    He never even thanked me, so that's the last time I do him a favour.
- (being) the only one or part that is left: 
    Do you mind if I have the last chocolate?
    I'm down to my last dollar - could I borrow some money for lunch?
    I'm afraid Martha's eaten the last of the ice cream.
    She was the last of the great educational reformers.
- (being) the most recent or the one before the present one: 
    Did you hear the storm last night (= during the previous night)?
    Did you see the news on TV last night (= yesterday evening)?
    They got married last November.
    When was the last time you had a cigarette?
    When did you last have a cigarette?
    She's been working there for the last month (= for the four weeks until now).
    Could you account for your whereabouts on Sunday last?
    The/These last five years have been very difficult for him.
    The last we heard of her, she was working as an English teacher in France.
    Each of her paintings has been better than the last.
- to continue to exist: 
    The meeting lasted two hours.
    The drought lasted for several months.
    They say the snow will last until the end of next week.
    I can't see the ceasefire lasting.
    They haven't had an argument for two weeks, but it's too good to last (= they'll have an argument soon).
    I doubt their enthusiasm will last.
    He's working very efficiently at the moment, but it won't last.
- to continue being good or suitable: 
    There's no point buying something that isn't going to last.
    The cheaper washing machines should last about five years.
    This pen should last (you) a lifetime if you take care of it.
    Her previous secretary only lasted a month (= left after this period).
idioms:
 have the last laugh
 last but not least
 the last but one
 the last sb heard/saw of sb/sth
 the last minute
 the last word in sth
 to the last
 (down) to the last ...
 to the last (man)
 as a last resort
 hear/see the last of sth
 on your last legs
 on its last legs
 the week/month/year before last
 not last long
phrasal verbs:
 last out

these /ðiːz/
- plural of
this 

put /pʊt/
put | present participle putting | past tense and past participle put
- to move something or someone into the stated place, position, or direction: 
    Where have you put the keys?
    Put your clothes in the cupboard.
    He put salt into the sugar bowl by mistake.
    She put her bag on the table.
    She put her hands over her eyes.
    I put my arm around him to comfort him.
    We always put the cat out (= outside the house) at night.
    Every night, she puts out her clothes (= takes them from where they are kept so that they are ready) for the next day.
    If we put the chairs a little closer together (= move them nearer to each other), we should be able to get another one around the table.
    If you put together (= mix) yellow and blue paint you get green.
    The prisoners were put up against (= moved into a position next to) a wall and shot.
- to write something: 
    She puts her name in all her books.
    Put an X next to the name of the candidate you want to vote for.
    I've put the date of the party down in my diary.
    He asked me to put my objections (down) on paper.
    It was an interesting article but I wish they'd put in more information (= included more information) about the costs.
- to express something in words: 
    She wanted to tell him that she didn't want to see him any more, but she didn't know how to put it.
    We're going to have to work very hard, but as Chris so succinctly put it, there's no gain without pain.
    Why do you always have to put things so crudely?
    Has everyone had a chance to put their point of view?
- to say what you think the price or value of something is: 
    The agent has put a price of £720,000 on our house.
    You can't put a value on friendship (= say what it is worth).
- used to describe the way you are expressing an event or opinion: 
    To put it bluntly, you're going to have to improve.
    He was annoyed, to put it mildly (= he was very annoyed).
- to cause someone or something to be in the stated condition or situation: 
    Are you prepared to put your children at risk?
    This puts me in a very difficult position.
    What has put you in such a bad mood?
    This election is a chance for the country to put a new government in (= elect a new government).
    It's broken into so many pieces, it'll be impossible to put it back together again (= repair it).
    Let's give her the chance to put her ideas into practice.
    The terrorists were put on trial (= their case was judged in a court of law) six years after the bombing.
    Wilson was put out (of the competition) (= was defeated) by Clarke in the second round.
    How much did it cost to have the television put right (= repaired)?
    I originally thought he was Australian, but he soon put me straight (= corrected me) and explained he was from New Zealand.
    I know she's gone forever, but I just can't put her out of my mind/head (= forget her).
    He's putting me under pressure to change my mind.
- to bring into operation; to cause to be used: 
    When the drugs failed to cure her, she put her faith/trust in herbal medicine.
    The school puts a lot of emphasis on teaching children to read and write.
    He's putting pressure on me to change my mind.
    The events of the last few weeks have put a real strain on him.
    In the story of Sleeping Beauty, the wicked fairy puts a spell/curse (US hex) on the baby princess.
    You know it was your fault, so don't try to put the blame on anyone else.
    The government is expected to put a new tax on cars.
    The new tax will put 15 percent on fuel prices (= increase them by 15 percent).
    She's never put a bet/money on a race before.
    He put everything he had into (= he used all his abilities and strength in) the final game.
    The more you put into something, the more you get out of it (= the harder you work at something, the more satisfying it is).
    They put (= invested) a lot of money into the family business.
    The president is trying to put through (= bring into operation) reforms of the country's economic system.
    They've got to put an end to/a stop to their fighting (= to stop fighting).
- to judge something or someone in comparison with other similar things or people: 
    I'd put him among the top six tennis players of all time.
    Drama critics have put her on a level/par with the great Shakespearean actresses.
    He always puts the needs of his family first/last (= they are the most/least important thing to him).
- to travel in a boat or ship across the sea: 
    Our mast broke, so we had to put about (= turn round) and return to port.
    The ship put in at (= stopped at) Cape Town for fresh supplies.
    We put to sea (= began our journey by sea) at dawn.
idioms:
 put your back into sth
 put yourself in sb's place/position/shoes
 put sb to sth
 put it about
 put it there!
 put one over on sb
 put the shot
 put the squeeze on sb
phrasal verbs:
 put sth about/around
 put sth across/over sb
 put sth across
 put yourself across
 put sth aside
 put sth at sth
 put sth away
 put sb away
 put sth back
 put sth before sb
 put sth behind you
 put sth by
 put sth/sb down
 put sth down
 put sb down
 put (sth) down (somewhere)
 put sb down somewhere
 put sb down as sth
 put sb down for sth
 put sth down to sth
 put sth/sb forward
 put sth forward
 put sth in
 put sth in/put sth into sth
 put (sth) in
 put in for sth
 put sth into sth
 put sth off
 put sb off
 put sb off (sth)
 put sb off (sth/sb)
 put sth on
 put sb on
 put sb on sth
 put sb onto sth
 put sth out
 put sb out
 put yourself out
 put out
 put sth over/across
 put sb through sth
 put sb through
 put sth to sb
 put sth together
 put sth towards sth
 put sth up
 put up sth
 put sth/sb up
 put sb up
 put up
 put sb up to sth
 put up with sth/sb
 be put upon

around /əˈraʊnd/
- in a position or direction surrounding, or in a direction going along the edge of or from one part to another (of): 
    We sat around the table.
    He put his arm around her.
    A crowd had gathered around the scene of the accident.
    She had a scarf around her neck.
    The moon goes around the earth.
    I walked around the side of the building.
    As the bus left, she turned around (= so that she was facing in the opposite direction) and waved goodbye to us.
    He put the wheel on the right/wrong way around (= facing the right/wrong way).
    The children were dancing around the room.
    I spent a year travelling around Africa and Asia.
    The museum's collection includes works of art from all around the world.
    She passed a plate of biscuits around (= from one person to another).
    This virus has been going around (= from one person to another).
- positioned or moving in or near a place, often without a clear direction, purpose, or order: 
    He always leaves his clothes lying around (on the floor).
    She went into town and spent two hours just walking around.
    Let's take the children to the park so they can run around for a while.
    I used to live around (= near) here.
    She's never around (= near here) when you need her.
    Will you be around next week?
    There's a lot of flu around (= a lot of people have it) at the moment.
    Smartphones have been around (= existed) for quite a while.
- approximately: 
    around six feet tall
    around two months ago
    around four o'clock
    She earns around $40,000 a year.
idioms:
 around and around

stop /stɒp/
stop | -pp-
- to finish doing something that you were doing: 
    Once I start eating chocolate, I can't stop.
    Stop shouting - you're giving me a headache!
    I couldn't stop laughing.
    Stop it!/Stop that!
- to not continue to operate: 
    My watch must have stopped.
    The air conditioner has stopped working.
- to not move any more or to make someone or something not move any more: 
    Stop the car, I want to get out!
    I heard him shout, "Stop, or I'll shoot!"
- to finish doing something that you do regularly or as a habit: 
    Apparently she's stopped drinking.
    I stopped seeing him last year.
- to pause for a short time while travelling or during an activity: 
    Does this train stop at Finsbury Park?
    Why don't you just stop somewhere and ask for directions?
    I stopped to pick up a letter that I'd dropped.
- to prevent someone from doing something: 
    If she really wants to leave, I don't understand what's stopping her.
    They've put barriers up to stop people (from) getting through.
    Something must be done to stop the fighting.
- to tell your bank not to deal with a cheque that you have written, so that the money is not paid from your bank account
- to stay in a place: 
    Are you coming with me or are you stopping here?
    I can't stop - Marc is waiting for me outside.
    Now that you're here, why don't you stop for some tea?
    I've been out every night this week, so I thought I'd stop in (= stay at home) tonight.
    We stopped up (= did not go to bed) until two o'clock last night watching the late film.
- to block a hole: 
    We stopped (up) the gap with some rags.
- the act of stopping an activity or journey, or a period of time when you stop: 
    Please remain in your seat until the plane comes to a complete stop.
    We'd have been here sooner, but we made several stops along the way.
    At the beginning of the project there were a lot of stops and starts.
- a place where vehicles, especially buses, stop in order to allow passengers to get off and on: 
    a bus stop
    I'm getting off at the next stop.
    Is this our stop (= where we must get off)?
- short form of
full stop 
- a 
plosive  (= consonant that is made by completely stopping the flow of air)
- to stop an unpleasant, unwanted activity or habit from continuing: 
    He used to smoke in bed when I first got to know him, but I soon put a stop to that!
idioms:
 stop at nothing
 stop short of sth
phrasal verbs:
 stop by (somewhere)
 stop in
 stop off somewhere
 stop over

long /lɒŋ/
- continuing for a large amount of time: 
    a long film/meeting
    I've been waiting a long time.
    It's a long time since I worked there.
    Apparently the sessions are an hour long.
- being a distance between two points that is more than average or usual: 
    long hair
    long legs
    a long dress
    There was a long queue at the post office.
    We're still a long way from the station.
- used to describe a piece of writing that has a lot of pages or words: 
    a long letter/book/report
- used to mean "(for) a long time", especially in questions and negative sentences: 
    Have you been waiting (for) long?
    I'm just writing a letter but it won't take long.
    How long have you been in England?
    Don't rush - take as long as you like.
    We've been walking all day long.
    I've known her longer than you have.
    I won't be staying much longer.
- a long period of time before or after something: 
    She left the house long before I arrived.
    It wasn't long before he was back with his family.
    He did not join them until long after they had eaten.
- used with the past participle or the -ing form of the verb to mean that a state or activity has continued for a long time: 
    a long-awaited letter
    long-serving employees
- used to say that something must happen before something else can happen: 
    I can come as long as I can leave by 4.00.
    Bring your friends by all means - just so long as I know how many are coming.
- to want something very much: 
    She longed to see him again.
    I'm longing for news of him.
- written abbreviation for
longitude 
- written abbreviation for 
longitude 
idioms:
 be long in the tooth
 before (very/too) long
 go a long way
 go a long way toward(s) doing sth
 go back a long way
 have come a long way
 it's a long story
 the long arm of the law
 (as) long as your arm
 a long face
 long live sb/sth!
 long on sth and short on sth
 long story short
 long time no see
 a long way to go
 no longer
 not by a long shot
 not long for this world
 so long
 take a long, hard look at sth
 take the long view
 the long and the short of it

always /ˈɔːl.weɪz/
- every time or all the time: 
    It's always cold in this room.
    She always spells my name wrong.
- for ever: 
    I'll always remember you.
- at all times in the past: 
    I've always liked him.
    I always thought I'd have children eventually.
- used with "can" or "could" to suggest another possibility: 
    If you miss this train you can always catch the next one.
- again and again, usually in an annoying way: 
    You're always complaining.

listen /ˈlɪs.ən/
- to give attention to someone or something in order to hear him, her, or it: 
    What kind of music do you listen to?
    She does all the talking - I just sit and listen.
    You haven't listened to a word I've said!
    We listened in silence as the names of the dead were read out.
    Listen, we really need to submit our insurance claim this weekend.
    Listen to this! You can win a car just by answering three simple questions.
- the act of listening to something: 
    Have a listen to this! I've never heard anything like it before.
    Their new record has just come out, and I gave it a listen.
phrasal verbs:
 listen in on sth/sb
 listen out for sth
 listen up

those /ðəʊz/
- plural of
that 

big /bɪɡ/
big | bigger | biggest
- large in size or amount: 
    He's a big man.
    Could I try these shoes in a bigger size?
    They have a big house in the country.
    She has blonde hair and big blue eyes.
    She had a big pay rise.
    I had a great big slice of chocolate cake for dessert.
    A thousand people took part in the region's biggest ever cycle race.
    You write August with a big (= capital) "a".
    She's always been a big spender (= she has always spent a lot of money).
    You're not a very big eater, are you? (= You do not eat a lot.)
- older or more like an adult: 
    Her big (= older) sister/brother told her to go away.
    I'm ashamed of you. You're big enough to know better (= at an age where you should know that your behaviour is not acceptable).
- used to add emphasis: 
    You're a big bully!
    He fell for her in a big way (= was greatly attracted to her).
- important, because of being powerful, or having a lot of influence or a serious effect: 
    He had a big decision to make.
    There's a big difference between starting up a business and just talking about it.
    The big story in the news this week is the mayor's resignation.
    The four biggest banks are all planning to cut their service charges.
- to be important or famous in a particular place or type of work: 
    They're big in Japan, but no one's heard of them here.
- If a product or activity is big, it is extremely popular: 
    Hip-hop is still big today.
idioms:
 a big ask
 be big of sb
 be big on sth
 be no big deal
 big deal!
 big fish/cheese/gun/noise/shot/wheel
 the big/bigger picture
 the bigger the better
 the bigger they are, the harder they fall
 the big I am
 have big ideas
 make it big
 too big for your boots
 what's the big idea?

lot /lɒt/
- lots (of) a large amount or number of people or things: 
    She eats lots of fruit.
    There were a lot of people there.
    He does a lot of travelling in his job.
    I've got a lot to do today.
    He earns lots of money.
    There's lots of food.
- very much or very often: 
    Your sister looks a lot like you.
    I'm feeling a lot better today.
    He looks a lot older than his wife.
    We used to go there a lot.
- to be the main cause of a problem or an unpleasant situation: 
    People who sell drugs to kids have a lot to answer for.
- everything: 
    I made enough curry for three people and he ate the lot.
    Have I got everything? Is that the lot?
    I'll sell you the whole lot for only £50.
    I'm sick of the lot of them.
- an amount or set of things, especially when there are several of these amounts: 
    I've already done one lot of washing.
    Another lot of visitors will be here this afternoon.
- in an auction (= public sale), an object or set of objects that are being sold: 
    Lot number 134 is a fine old walnut bureau.
- an area of land: 
    an empty lot
    a parking lot
    They're planning to build a house on a vacant lot on 35th Street.
- a film studio and the land around it
- the quality of someone's life and the experiences that they have: 
    They should do something to improve the lot of the lowest-paid workers.
    Do you think he's happy with his lot?
- to make a decision by choosing from a set of objects such as pieces of paper or sticks that are all the same except for one: 
    We drew lots to decide who would go.
- a group of people: 
    You're an ignorant lot!
    Are you lot coming to lunch?
    My lot (= children and family generally) won't eat spinach.
idioms:
 there's a lot of it about

kind /kaɪnd/
- generous, helpful, and thinking about other people's feelings: 
    She's a very kind and thoughtful person.
    It's very kind of you to help us.
    Please be kind to your sister!
    Would you be kind enough to/so kind as to close the door? (= please would you do this)
- not causing harm or damage: 
    kind to the environment
    This soap is kinder to the skin.
- a group with similar characteristics, or a particular type: 
    Today's vehicles use two kinds of fuel - petrol and diesel.
    What kind of (a) job are you looking for?
    I just don't have that kind of money (= I don't have so much money).
    The cupboard contained all kinds of strange things.
    Her travel company was the first of its kind (= of others that are similar).
idioms:
 in kind
 kind of
 of a kind
 of the kind

wrong /rɒŋ/
- not correct: 
    Three of your answers were wrong.
    That clock is wrong - it's 12.30, not 12.15.
    Some of his facts are questionable, others are plainly (= completely) wrong.
- If someone is wrong, they are not correct in their judgment or statement about something: 
    You were wrong about the time - the bank closed at 3.30.
    He's wrong in thinking that we will support the project financially.
- to show by your actions that someone's judgment of you was not correct: 
    I thought she couldn't do it, but she proved me wrong.
- not suitable or correct, or not as it should be: 
    She's the wrong person for the job.
    We must have taken a wrong turning.
    I'm sorry, you've got the wrong number (= this is not the phone number you wanted).
- Something that is wrong is not considered to be socially acceptable or suitable: 
    She got in with the wrong crowd (= a group of people who behaved badly) at university.
- If you ask someone what is wrong, you want to know what is worrying or upsetting them: 
    You've been quiet all evening. Is there anything wrong?
    What's wrong with you today?
- If something is the wrong way around, the part that should be at the front is at the back: 
    You've got your skirt on the wrong way round.
- not considered morally acceptable by most people: 
    Children should be taught that violence is wrong.
    It was wrong of her to lie to you.
    What's wrong with having a little fun?
- not working correctly: 
    Something's wrong with the television - the picture's fuzzy.
    The doctors are still trying to find out what's wrong.
- in a way that is not correct: 
    You've spelled my name wrong.
- to make a mistake in the way you answer or understand something: 
    I spent hours doing that problem and I still got the answer wrong.
    You've got it all wrong - it was your boss that she was annoyed with and not you!
- If a situation or event goes wrong, it becomes unpleasant and is not a success: 
    Our marriage began to go wrong after we had our first child.
- to make a mistake: 
    These shelves are very easy to put together - you can't go wrong.
    I thought I'd done this correctly - I just can't understand where I went wrong.
- If a machine goes wrong, it stops working correctly: 
    Our TV keeps going wrong.
- what is considered to be morally unacceptable: 
    He has no sense of right and wrong.
    I was brought up to tell the truth and know right from wrong.
    As far as her parents are concerned, she can do no wrong (= she is perfect in every way).
- an unfair action: 
    He has done us a great wrong.
    She was trying to right (= do something to make better) the wrongs of the past.
- If someone is in the wrong, they have made a mistake or done something that is bad or illegal: 
    The driver was unquestionably in the wrong.
- to treat someone in an unfair or unacceptable way: 
    She felt deeply wronged by his accusations.
idioms:
 catch sb on the wrong foot
 get the wrong end of the stick
 get/fall into the wrong hands
 go down the wrong way
 in the wrong place at the wrong time
 send/give out (all) the wrong signals
 don't get me wrong
 two wrongs don't make a right

through /θruː/
- from one end or side of something to the other: 
    They walked slowly through the woods.
    The boy waded through the water to reach his boat.
    He struggled through the crowd till he reached the front.
    How long the journey takes will depend on how long it takes to get through the traffic.
    Her words kept running through my mind/head (= I kept hearing her words in my imagination).
    We drove through the tunnel.
    I saw him drive through a red light (= he did not stop at the red traffic light).
    I'll put you through (= connect you by phone) (to the sales department).
- from the beginning to the end of a period of time: 
    It rained all/right through June and into the first half of July.
    We sat through two of the speeches and then left.
    She had just enough energy to get through the day.
    She works Monday through Thursday (= from Monday to Thursday).
- as a result of: 
    The company lost the order through production delays.
- by; using: 
    I got my car through my brother who works in a garage.
    We sold the bike through advertising in the local paper.
- having finished using or doing something: 
    I've got some work to do but I should be through in an hour if you can wait.
    Are you through with that atlas?
- to achieve success in an exam, competition, etc. and progress to the next stage or a higher level: 
    She's through to the next round of interviews.
    "Has she heard about her entrance exams yet?" "Yes, she's through."
- A through train or bus goes all the way from one place to another place without the passenger having to change trains or buses.
idioms:
 through and through

new /njuː/
- recently created or having started to exist recently: 
    a new car
    She's very creative and always coming up with new ideas.
    What have they decided to name the new baby?
    What's new in the fashion world?
    We have to invest in new technology if we are to remain competitive.
- different from one that existed earlier: 
    Have you met the new secretary?
    She's looking for a new job.
    Have you seen Ann's new house (= where she has just started living)?
    They've just launched a new generation of computers that are much more powerful than earlier models.
- not yet familiar or experienced: 
    to be new to the area
    She's new to the job so you can't expect her to know everything yet.
- not previously used or owned: 
    Used car sales have risen because of the increased cost of new cars.
    Did you buy your bike new or second-hand?
- recently discovered or made known: 
    This new cancer treatment offers hope to many sufferers.
    A retrial can only take place when new evidence has emerged.
- new things: 
    Out with the old and in with the new.
- recent or recently: 
    The government's new-found enthusiasm for green issues has been welcomed by environmentalists.
idioms:
 be the new sth
 feel like a new woman/man
 a new broom sweeps clean
 the new kid on the block
 a new lease of life
 that's a new one on me.

guess /ɡes/
- to give an answer to a particular question when you do not have all the facts and so cannot be certain if you are correct: 
    I didn't know the answer, so I had to guess.
    On the last question, she guessed right/wrong.
    Guess when this was built.
    I guessed (that) she was your sister.
    She asked me to guess her age.
    I guessed the total amount to be about £50,000.
- to give the correct answer or make the correct judgment: 
    I bet you can't guess how old he is.
    She guessed the answer on her first try.
    "You have a new job, don't you?" "Yes, how did you guess?"
- used before telling someone something interesting or surprising: 
    Guess what? We won the game 4–0.
- used when you believe something is true or likely but are not certain: 
    I guess (that) things are pretty hard for you now.
- an attempt to give the right answer when you are not certain if you are correct: 
    Go on - have/make a guess.
    Both teams made some wild guesses (= made without much thought), none of which were right.
- someone's opinion about something that is formed without any knowledge of the situation: 
    "I wonder why she's not here." "My guess is that her car has broken down."
- If a piece of information is anyone's guess, no one knows it: 
    "So what's going to happen now?" "That's anyone's guess."
idioms:
 keep sb guessing
 your guess is as good as mine
phrasal verbs:
 guess at sth

care /keər/
- the process of protecting someone or something and providing what that person or thing needs: 
    The standard of care at our local hospital is excellent.
    Mira's going to be very weak for a long time after the operation, so she'll need a lot of care.
    Nurseries are responsible for the children in their care.
- used as a combining form: 
    skincare/healthcare/childcare
- to protect someone or something and provide the things that that person or thing needs: 
    Take good care of that girl of yours, Patrick - she's very special.
    Don't worry about me, I can take care of myself (= I do not need anyone else to protect me).
- Children who are in care or who have been taken/put into care are not living with their natural parents but instead with a national or local government organization or another family: 
    Both children were taken into care when their parents died.
- a system in which people with mental illness or reduced mental ability are allowed to continue living in their own homes, with treatment and help, and are not kept in hospital
- serious attention, especially to the details of a situation or thing: 
    She painted the window frames with great care so that no paint got onto the glass.
    You need to take a bit more care with your spelling.
    The roads are icy, so drive with care.
    Take care on these busy roads (= drive with attention so that you do not have an accident).
    Take care not to (= make certain that you do not) spill your coffee.
    Take care (= make certain) that you don't fall.
    The parcel had a label on it saying "Handle with care".
- to deal with something: 
    If you can see to the drinks for the party, I'll take care of the food.
    All the travel arrangements have been taken care of.
    No, you paid for dinner last time, let me take care of (= pay for) it.
- a feeling of worry or anxiety: 
    She seemed weighed down by all her cares.
- to think that something is important and to feel interested in it or upset about it: 
    She's never cared very much about her appearance.
    I really don't care whether we go out or not.
    I don't care how much it costs, just buy it.
    "Was Lorna happy about the arrangements?" "I don't know and I don't care."
    Your parents are only doing this because they care about (= love) you.
- used to emphasize rudely that you are not interested in or worried about something or someone: 
    "Mike's really fed up about it." "I couldn't care less."
- used to say that you are not interested in or worried about what someone else is doing: 
    You can go to the match with Paula, for all I care.
- used to say that you are not interested in or worried about something that has happened or that someone has said: 
    He said he didn't approve of what I'd done, as if I cared.
- used to emphasize rudely that you do not think something is important: 
    "It looks as if we are going to lose." "Who cares?".
- used in polite offers and suggestions: 
    Would you care for a drink?
    Would you care to join us for dinner?
idioms:
 care of
 have a care
 have all the cares of the world on your shoulders
 take care (of yourself)
 without a care in the world
phrasal verbs:
 care for sb
 not care for sb/sth

bad /bæd/
- unpleasant and causing difficulties or harm: 
    Our holiday was spoiled by bad weather.
    We've just had some very bad news.
    I had a very bad night (= did not sleep well) last night.
    Watch out - he's in a bad mood (= being unpleasant to everyone).
    She's just a bad loser (= she is unpleasant when she loses).
    The company has been getting a lot of bad publicity (= negative things have been written or said about it) recently.
    The lines were so bad (= unpleasantly long) that I didn't bother waiting.
    The company's financial situation is looking pretty bad at the moment.
    The damage caused by the storm was nowhere near as/nothing like as bad (= not as serious) as we'd feared it might be.
    Breathing in other people's cigarette smoke is bad for you (= has a harmful effect on your health).
    This is a bad (= not convenient or suitable) time for me to talk. Can I call you back later?
- fairly good or satisfactory: 
    "How are things?" "Not too bad, thanks."
- very good: 
    He was best in his age group - not bad, eh?
- to feel ashamed and sorry: 
    Knowing that I hurt her makes me feel really bad.
    I feel bad about letting them down.
- If a situation goes from bad to worse, it was difficult and unpleasant, and is becoming even more so: 
    Things have gone from bad to worse.
- of low quality, or not acceptable: 
    The plumber did a bad job on the repairs.
    Are the company's current difficulties a result of bad (= harmful) luck or bad (= of low quality) judgment?
    He has some very bad habits.
    In some parts of the world, it is considered bad manners to pick up food with the left hand.
    He was sent home from school for bad behaviour.
    That remark was in pretty bad taste, wasn't it?
    I'm very bad at cooking (= cannot do it very well).
- (of people or actions) evil or morally unacceptable: 
    There are a lot of bad people in the world.
    He has his faults but he's not a bad person.
- causing or experiencing pain: 
    She can't walk up all those steps, not with her bad leg!
    a bad cough
- harmful to eat because of being decayed: 
    We'd better eat this chicken before it goes bad.
- informal for badly (= very much): 
    He needs the money real bad.
    My arm hurts so bad.
- things or events that are not good or that are morally wrong: 
    She only ever sees the bad in people.
idioms:
 be in a bad way
 give sth up as a bad job
 go to the bad
 my bad
 take the bad with the good
 to the bad
 have (got) it bad

mom /mɒm/
- a mother: 
    I miss my mom and dad a lot.
    Aw, Mom, why can't I go?
    All the moms were waiting in the schoolyard.
    She loves being a mom.

remember /rɪˈmem.bər/
- to be able to bring back a piece of information into your mind, or to keep a piece of information in your memory: 
    "Where did you park the car?" "I can't remember."
    I can remember people's faces, but not their names.
    She suddenly remembered (that) her keys were in her other bag.
    I don't remember signing a contract.
    Can you remember what her phone number is?
    I remember him as (= I thought he was) a rather annoying man.
- to not forget to do something: 
    Did you remember to do the shopping?
- to be kept in people's memories because of a particular action or quality: 
    She will be remembered for her courage.
- said when you are talking to someone about something that they used to know but might have forgotten: 
    We went and had tea in that little café - you remember, the one next to the bookshop.
- to hold a special ceremony to honour a past event or someone who has died: 
    On 11 November, the British remember those who died in the two World Wars.
- to give a present or money to someone you love or who has provided good service to you: 
    My Granny always remembers me (= sends me a present) on my birthday.
    My cousin remembered me in her will.
phrasal verbs:
 remember sb to sb

together /təˈɡeð.ər/
- with each other: 
    We used to go to yoga together.
    We worked together on a project a couple of years back.
    Could you add these numbers together for me?
    You mix all the dry ingredients together before you add the milk.
    I like both flavours separately but I don't like them together.
    You could stick that back together (= join the separate parts to each other) with some glue.
    She said, "Never trust a man whose eyes are so close together!"
    The waiter asked if we were all together, so I explained that we were two separate parties.
    We should get together (= meet each other socially) some time and have a drink.
- If two people are described as together, they have a close romantic and often sexual relationship with each other: 
    Mira and Ellis have been together now for almost five years.
- If two people get together or get it together, they start a sexual relationship with each other: 
    We'd seen each other a few times as part of a group, but we didn't really get it together till Rachel's party.
- at the same time: 
    The packages were sent separately, but they all came together. 
    We can deal with the next two items on the list together.
- combined: 
    Together they must earn over $300,000 a year.
    She's got more sense than the rest of you put together.
- in one place: 
    I'll just gather my stuff together, and then we can go.
- in addition to; and also: 
    The money that I owe you for the phone together with the rent equals £300.
    That bottle of champagne together with those chocolates will make a nice present.
- organized, confident of your abilities, and able to use them to achieve what you want: 
    For a sixteen-year-old, he seems pretty together.
- to get something organized: 
    We were going to go skiing over Christmas but we never got it together.

dad /dæd/
- a father: 
    Can you pick me up from the party tonight, Dad?
    It was great to see your mum and dad at the concert last night.

leave /liːv/
leave | left | left
- to go away from someone or something, for a short time or permanently: 
    I'll be leaving at five o'clock tomorrow.
    He left the house by the back door.
    She left the group of people she was with and came over to speak to us.
    The bus leaves in five minutes.
- to not take something or someone with you when you go, either intentionally or by accident: 
    Hey, you've left your keys on the table.
    Can I leave a message for Sue?
    Why don't you leave the kids with me on Friday?
- If something leaves something else, a part or effect of it stays after it has gone or been used: 
    His shoes left muddy marks on the floor.
    If I give you €50 that won't leave me enough cash to pay the bill.
    Far from improving things, the new law has left many people worse off (= they are now in a worse situation) than before.
- If you leave something in a particular condition, you do not touch it, move it, or act to change it in any way, so that it stays in the same condition: 
    Leave that chair where it is.
    He left most of his dinner (= did not eat much of it).
    The family were left (= became and continued to be) homeless.
    I'll have to go back - I think I've left the iron on.
    You can leave the window open.
    Leave your sister alone (= stop annoying her).
- If you leave something or someone doing something, he, she, or it is still doing it when you go away: 
    I left the children watching television.
    He left the engine running.
- to not eat or use all of something: 
    They'd eaten all the cake, but they'd left some sandwiches.
    Are there any cookies left?
    There's some food left over from the party.
    Make sure you leave enough hot water for the rest of us.
- to stop doing something, or to leave a place because you have finished an activity: 
    Many children leave school at 16.
    He left work in June for health reasons.
    She left home (= stopped living with her parents) at 18.
    Could we leave that subject (= stop discussing that subject) for the moment and go on to the next item on the agenda?
- to end a relationship with a husband, wife, or partner and stop living with them: 
    I'll never leave you.
    She left her husband for a younger man.
- If you leave (doing) something, you wait before you do it: 
    I'll leave these letters till Monday (= write them on Monday).
    Don't leave it too late (= don't wait too long to do it).
    They left booking their holiday till/to the last minute.
- To leave a wife, husband, or other close family member is to die while these family members are still alive: 
    He left a wife and two children.
- If you leave something that you own to someone, you say they should receive it when you die: 
    He left his nieces all his money./He left all his money to his nieces.
- to allow someone to make a choice or decision about something, or to make someone responsible for something: 
    I left the decision (up) to her.
    I left it to her to make the decision.
    Leave it (= the problem) with me, I'll see what I can do.
    I'll leave it to chance (= wait and see what happens without planning).
- time allowed away from work for a holiday or illness: 
    How much annual/paid leave do you get?
    She's (gone) on leave (= holiday).
    I've asked if I can take a week's unpaid leave.
- formal permission to be away from work or studies
- permission or agreement: 
    He did it without (my) leave.
    Did you get leave to do that?
- to say goodbye: 
    He decided the time had come to take leave of his home town.
idioms:
 be left holding the baby
 leave sb be
 leave sb cold
 leave sb hanging
 leave sb in the lurch
 leave sb out in the cold
 leave sb standing
 leave sb to their own devices
 leave a bad taste in sb's mouth
 leave a lot to be desired
 leave go/hold of sth
 leave it at that
 leave it out!
 leave no stone unturned
 leave well alone
 take leave of your senses
 without so much as a by-your-leave
phrasal verbs:
 leave sth aside
 leave sth/sb behind
 leave sth behind
 leave sth for/to sb
 leave sth/sb off sth
 leave off (sth/doing sth)
 leave off!
 leave sb/sth out

mother /ˈmʌð.ər/
- a female parent: 
    My mother was 21 when she got married.
    All the mothers and fathers had been invited to the end-of-term concert.
    The little kittens and their mother were all curled up asleep in the same basket.
    May I borrow your car, Mother?
- the title of a woman who is in charge of, or who has a high rank within, a convent (= house of religious women): 
    Mother Theresa
    a mother superior
    Good morning, Mother.
- a mixture used for making sourdough bread, consisting of flour and water that has been allowed to ferment (= to undergo a chemical process of being broken down by bacteria or yeasts) and has been kept from a previous occasion when bread was made: 
    Head baker Saci made his mother nearly twenty years ago.
    He shows them how to mix older mother dough with fresh new dough for the perfect balance of flavour.
- a substance used for making any food or drink that is fermented (= that undergoes a chemical process of being broken down by bacteria or yeasts), that is kept from a previous occasion when the food or drink was made : 
    The kefir mother grows slowly from batch to batch.
    Here's how to grow a kombucha mother.
    Organic, unfiltered apple cider vinegar also contains "mother", strands of proteins, enzymes and friendly bacteria that give the product a murky appearance.
- → 
motherfucker 
- to treat a person with great kindness and love and to try to protect them from anything dangerous or difficult: 
    Stop mothering her - she's 40 years old and can take care of herself.
idioms:
 at your mother's knee
 the mother of all sth

place /pleɪs/
- an area, town, building, etc.: 
    Her garden was a cool pleasant place to sit.
    What was the name of that place we drove through on the way to New York?
    They decided to go to a pizza place.
    There are several places of interest to visit in the area.
    It's important to feel comfortable in your place of work.
- a home: 
    I'm looking for a place to live.
    We'll have the meeting at my place.
- a suitable area, building, situation, or occasion: 
    University is a great place for making new friends.
    This meeting isn't the place to discuss your problems, I'm afraid.
- a position in relation to other things or people: 
    His leg was broken in two places.
    When you've finished, put the book back in its place on the shelf.
    This plant needs a warm, sunny place.
    Will you keep my place (in the queue) (= allow me to come back to the same position)?
    She spoke to me and I lost my place in the book (= I forgot where I had been reading).
- the seat you will sit in on a particular occasion, or the seat where you usually sit, in the theatre, a class, a train, etc.: 
    My ticket says 6G but there's someone sitting in my place.
    The children collected their prizes and then went back to their places.
    Save me a place (= keep a seat for me until I arrive) near the front.
- the space at a table where one person will sit and eat, usually with a plate and knives, forks, and spoons arranged on it: 
    The waiter showed us to our places and gave us each a menu.
    He laid six places at the table.
- a position in an organization, system, or competition: 
    She's got a place at university
    She's got a place on a fine-arts course.
    She's got a place in a fine-arts course.
    Our team finished in second place.
    He took third place (= was the third to finish) in the marathon last year.
- used after words such as "any" and "some" as a different way of saying "anywhere", "somewhere", etc.: 
    I know I left that book some place - now, where was it?
    That bar was like no place I'd ever been before.
- to happen: 
    The concert takes place next Thursday.
- in the wrong place or looking wrong: 
    The boy looked uncomfortable and out of place among the adults.
- If something is in place, it is in its usual or correct position: 
    The chairs are all in place.
    He screwed the shelf in place.
- organized: 
    The arrangements are all in place for the concert next Thursday.
- instead of someone or something: 
    You can use margarine in place of butter in some recipes.
- to be used instead of someone or something
- what a person should do or is allowed to do, especially according to the rules of society: 
    It's not your place to tell me what to do.
    I'm not going to criticize his decision - I know my place (= I know that I am of lower rank or have less authority).
- to put something in a particular position: 
    She placed the letter in front of me.
    She placed her name on the list of volunteers.
    I'd place him among the ten most brilliant scientists of his age.
    The horse was placed first/second/third in its first race (= finished the race in first/second/third position).
- to arrange to have an advertisement, bet, order, etc.: 
    We placed the order for the furniture six weeks ago.
    They were placing bets (= gambling) on who would win.
- to give something emphasis, importance, etc.: 
    She placed the emphasis on the word "soon" in order to make sure was understood.
    He placed importance on a comfortable lifestyle (= it was important to him).
- to find someone a job: 
    The students are placed in/with companies for a period of work experience.
- to recognize someone or remember where you have seen someone and how you know them: 
    She looks familiar but I can't place her - did she use to work here?
idioms:
 all over the place
 change places
 go places
 in a ... place
 in the first/second place
 a place for everything and everything in its place
 a place in the sun
 put sb in their place
 take first/second place
 how are you placed for...?

understand /ˌʌn.dəˈstænd/
understand | understood | understood
- to know the meaning of something that someone says: 
    She explained the whole idea again, but I still didn't understand.
    Is there anyone here who understands Arabic?
    I think he was calling from a club - it was so noisy, I couldn't understand a word he said.
- to know why or how something happens or works: 
    We still don't fully understand how the brain works.
- to know how someone feels or why someone behaves in a particular way: 
    My wife doesn't understand me.
    Sometimes I don't understand James.
    You don't understand what it's like/how it feels to have to beg on the streets.
- to think, especially wrongly, that someone means a particular thing: 
    When he said three o'clock, I understood him to mean in the afternoon.
- When two people understand one another, they both know what the other means and wants and they have an agreement: 
    I wanted to make sure that we want the same things, that we really understand each other.
- to know or realize something because you have been told it: 
    I understand (that) you are interested in borrowing some money from us.
    The Director had given her to understand (= told her) that she would be promoted.
    A secret buyer is understood to have paid $1 million for the three pictures (= there is unofficial news that this has happened).
- used when making certain that someone knows what you mean and will do as you want: 
    I don't want you to see that boy again. Understand?/Do you understand?/Is that understood?
- used to refer to something such as a rule that everyone knows and accepts: 
    In the library it is understood that people should talk quietly.
idioms:
 make yourself understood

actually /ˈæk.tʃu.ə.li/
- in fact or really: 
    I didn't actually see her - I just heard her voice.
    So what actually happened?
- used in sentences in which there is information that is in some way surprising or the opposite of what most people would expect: 
    I didn't like him at first, but in the end I actually got quite fond of him.
    I'm one of the few people who doesn't actually like champagne.
    Don't tell me he actually paid for you!
- used as a way of making a sentence slightly more polite, for example when you are expressing an opposing opinion, correcting what someone else has said, or refusing an offer: 
    "Alexander looks like he'd be good at sports." "Actually, he's not."
    Actually, Gavin, it was Tuesday of last week, not Wednesday.
    "Do you mind if I smoke?" "Well, actually, I'd rather you didn't."

hear /hɪər/
hear | heard | heard
- to receive or become conscious of a sound using your ears: 
    She heard a noise outside.
    My grandfather is getting old and can't hear very well.
    You'll have to speak up, I can't hear you.
    I heard/I could hear someone calling my name.
    At eight o'clock Jane heard him go out.
- to be told information about something: 
    Have you heard the news?
    If you haven't heard by Friday, assume I'm not coming.
    Have you heard what's happened?
    I hear (that) you're leaving.
- to listen to someone or something with great attention or officially in court: 
    I heard a really interesting programme on the radio this morning.
    I heard the orchestra play at Carnegie Hall last summer.
    An audience gathered to hear him speak.
    Lord, hear our prayers.
    The case will be heard (= officially listened to) by the High Court.
idioms:
 can't hear yourself think
 do you hear?
 hear tell (of)
 hear wedding bells
 hear, hear!
 I must be hearing things
 not hear the end/last of sth
 will never hear the end of it
 won't hear a word (said) against sb/sth
 you could have heard a pin drop
phrasal verbs:
 hear from sb
 have heard of sb/sth
 not hear of sth
 hear sth of sb
 hear sb out

baby /ˈbeɪ.bi/
- a very young child, especially one that has not yet begun to walk or talk: 
    a newborn baby
    a six-week-old baby
    a baby boy
    baby clothes
    baby food
    Sandra had a baby (= gave birth to it) on 29 May.
    Owen is the baby (= the youngest person) of the family.
- a very young animal: 
    a baby elephant/monkey
- an adult or especially an older child who is crying or behaving like a child: 
    It didn't hurt that much - don't be such a baby!
- a word you can use when you are talking to someone you love such as your wife, husband, partner, etc.: 
    Oh baby, I love you.
- a type of vegetable that is specially grown to stay small
- Someone's baby is something that they have a special interest in and responsibility for: 
    I don't know much about the project - it's Philip's baby.
- to treat an older child as if he or she were a much younger child: 
    The boys were now ten and twelve and didn't want their mother to baby them.

nice /naɪs/
- pleasant, enjoyable, or satisfactory: 
    Did you have a nice trip?
    Have a nice day/time!
    This milk doesn't smell very nice.
    Thanks for ringing - it's been nice talking to you.
- pleasantly: 
    This orange is nice and juicy.
- kind, friendly, or polite: 
    Jane's new boyfriend is a really nice guy.
    I wish you'd be nice to your brother.
    It was very nice of her to drive you home.
    It's not nice to talk with your mouth full.
- based on very slight differences: 
    I wasn't convinced by his nice distinction between a lie and an untruth.
idioms:
 make nice
 nice one!
 nice work if you can get it

father /ˈfɑː.ðər/
- a male parent: 
    My father took me to watch the football every Saturday.
    The children's father came to pick them up from school.
    Please may I go, Father?
- (the title of) a Christian priest, especially a Roman Catholic or Orthodox priest: 
    Father O'Reilly
    Are you giving a sermon, Father?
- a name for the Christian God: 
    God the Father
    Our Father, who art in heaven...
- to become the father of a child by making a woman pregnant: 
    He's fathered three children.
idioms:
 the father of sth

else /els/
- used after words beginning with any-, every-, no-, and some-, or after how, what, where, who, why, but not which, to mean 'other', 'another', 'different', 'extra': 
    Everybody else has (= all the other people have) agreed except for you.
    If it doesn't work, try something else (= something different).
    Let's go before they ask us to visit anyone else (= another person).
    It's not my bag. It must be someone else's (= it must belong to another person).
    The book isn't here. Where else (= in what other place) should I look?
    He came to see you. Why else (= for what other reason) would he come?
    After I'd thanked them I didn't know what else (= what other things) to say.
idioms:
 or else

stay /steɪ/
- to not move away from or leave a place or situation: 
    They need an assistant who is willing to stay for six months.
    Stay until the rain has stopped.
    Can you stay after work to play tennis?
    Because of the snow, children were told to stay at home.
- to continue doing something, or to continue to be in a particular state: 
    Stay away from the edge of the cliff.
    He decided not to stay in teaching/medicine/the army.
    The final figures showed that most departments had stayed within budget.
    It was so warm we stayed (out) in the garden until ten that night.
    Put a lid on the pan so the food will stay hot.
    The shops stay open until nine o' clock.
    They stayed friends after their divorce.
- to live or be in a place for a short time as a visitor: 
    I stayed in Montreal for two weeks then flew home.
    They said they'd stay at/in a hotel.
    My kids usually stay with their grandparents for a week in the summer.
- to sleep somewhere for one night: 
    We've arranged to stay overnight at my sister's house.
- to live somewhere permanently: 
    I still stay with my parents.
- a period of time that you spend in a place: 
    She planned a short stay at/in a hotel to celebrate their anniversary.
- an order by a judge that stops a judgment being performed until new information can be considered
idioms:
 here to stay
 stay on the sidelines
 stay put
 stay the course
phrasal verbs:
 stay away from sb/sth
 stay behind
 stay in
 stay on
 stay out
 stay out of sth
 stay over
 stay up

their /ðeər/
- of or belonging to them: 
    He gave them their coats.
- used to refer to one person in order to avoid saying "his or her": 
    One of the students has left their book behind.

course /kɔːs/
- a set of classes or a plan of study on a particular subject, usually leading to an exam or qualification: 
    They're going away on a training course next week.
    I'd like to do (US take) a writing course when I retire.
    Tim did a three-year course in linguistics at Newcastle.
- an area of land or water used for a sports event: 
    a golf course/cross-country course
- the often gradual development of something, or the way something happens, or a way of doing something: 
    Did the scandal have any effect on the course of the election?
    In the course of (= during) the interview it became clear that he was not the right person for the job.
    What would be an appropriate course (of action) in such a situation?
    If our rivals are spending more on advertising, we'll have to follow the same course.
    The defendants are also accused of attempting to pervert the course of justice.
- after a period of time: 
    I assume they plan to have children in the course of time.
- gradually: 
    With the course of time, I've learned to live with my disability.
- the direction in which a vehicle, especially an aircraft, spacecraft, or ship, moves, or the path along which a river flows: 
    The pilot avoided a collision by changing course.
    Changing the course of the river would cause serious environmental damage to the whole valley.
    The debate completely changed course after Liz made her speech.
- likely to happen, or likely to succeed as planned: 
    Because of the recession, we're on course for/to have record unemployment levels.
- a part of a meal that is served separately from the other parts: 
    a four-course lunch
    A traditional British main course consists of a meat dish with potatoes and other vegetables.
- a fixed number of regular medical treatments: 
    My doctor's put me on a course of antibiotics.
    She needed a six-month course of physiotherapy after she broke her leg.
- a continuous horizontal layer of bricks or other building material
- to flow quickly or in large amounts: 
    Tears were coursing down his cheeks.
    You could almost hear the blood coursing through her veins as she passed the finishing line.
    A new wave of idealism is coursing through our schools.
idioms:
 of course
 of course not

might /maɪt/
- past simple of the verb may, used especially when reporting what someone has said, thought, asked, etc.: 
    I brought him some sandwiches because I thought he might be hungry.
    Very politely the little boy asked if he might have another piece of cake (= he said "May I have another piece of cake, please?").
- used to express the possibility that something will happen or be done, or that something is true although not very likely: 
    I might come and visit you next year, if I can save enough money.
    Don't go any closer - it might be dangerous/it might not be safe.
    Driving so fast, he might have had a nasty accident (= it could have happened but it did not).
    The rain might have stopped by now.
- used as a more polite form of may when asking for permission: 
    Might I ask a question?
    I wonder if I might have a quick look at your newspaper?
- used to make a suggestion or suggest a possibility in a polite way: 
    You might try a little more basil in the sauce next time.
    I thought you might want to join me for dinner.
- used to suggest, especially angrily, what someone should do to be pleasant, correct, polite, etc.: 
    You might at least try to look like you're enjoying yourself!
    "I asked my boss over for dinner tonight." "Well, you might have asked me first!"
- used to introduce a statement that is very different from the statement you really want to make, in order to compare the two: 
    The amount you save might be small, but it's still worth doing.
- power, strength, or force: 
    Pizarro defeated the might of the Inca Empire with only a few hundred men.
    She struggled with all her might to get free.
idioms:
 I might have known
 might I ask/inquire/know
 with might and main

mind /maɪnd/
- the part of a person that makes it possible for him or her to think, feel emotions, and understand things: 
    Her mind was full of what had happened the night before, and she just wasn't concentrating.
    Of course I'm telling the truth - you have such a suspicious mind!
    I just said the first thing that came into my mind.
    I'm not quite clear in my mind about what I'm doing.
- a very intelligent person: 
    She was one of the most brilliant minds of the last century.
- If a problem is all in the mind, it does not exist and is only imagined: 
    His doctor tried to convince him that he wasn't really ill and that it was all in his mind.
- to remember a piece of information when you are making a decision or thinking about a matter: 
    Bearing in mind how young she is, I thought she did really well.
    Of course, repair work is expensive and you have to keep that in mind.
- to think repeatedly about an event that has happened: 
    She kept going over the accident again and again in her mind, wishing that she could somehow have prevented it.
- (used in questions and negatives) to be annoyed or worried by something: 
    Do you think he'd mind if I borrowed his book?
    I don't mind having a dog in the house so long as it's clean.
    I wouldn't mind (= I would like) something to eat, if that's OK.
    Would you mind turning (= please turn) your radio down a little please?
    Do you mind if I (= may I) put the TV on?
    Do you mind me smoking?
    I don't mind what you wear so long as it's not that awful pink shirt.
    I'd rather stay in tonight, if you don't mind.
    "Would you like tea or coffee?" "I don't mind - either."
- said to someone when you feel annoyed with that person for what they have just done or said: 
    Do you mind? That's my seat you're sitting on!
- to be careful of, or give attention to something: 
    Mind that box - the bottom isn't very strong.
    Mind (that) you don't bang your head on the shelf when you stand up.
    Mind (= make certain that) you take enough money with you.
    Mind your language (= don't use swear words), young lady!
- used to tell someone to move or be careful, or to warn someone of danger: 
    Mind out! We're coming through with the stretcher.
    "Hey, mind!" he said when she trod on his foot.
    Mind out for falling rocks on this part of the trail.
- said when you say goodbye to someone, meaning "take care"
- to take care of someone or something: 
    She asked me if I'd mind the children for an hour while she went shopping.
    Could you mind my bag for a moment while I go to the toilet?
- to listen to and obey someone: 
    Mind your grandma!
    This dog won't mind.
idioms:
 be bored, drunk, etc. out of your mind
 be of sound/unsound mind
 be of the same mind
 bring/call sth to mind
 get your mind around sth 
 get sth out of your mind
 have sth on your mind
 have a mind of its own
 have half a mind/a good mind to do sth
 have something in mind
 in your mind's eye
 a load/weight off your mind
 make up your mind
 your mind is a blank/goes blank
 your mind is on sth
 mind over matter
 out of your mind
 put sb in mind of sth
 put sth out of your mind
 set/put sb's mind at rest/ease
 set/put your mind to sth
 sb's state/frame of mind
 take sb's mind off sth
 to my mind
 don't mind me
 I don't mind if I do
 if you don't mind me saying/asking
 mind (you)
 mind your own business
 mind your p's and q's
 mind the store

every /ˈev.ri/
- used when referring to all the members of a group of three or more: 
    The police want to interview every employee about the theft.
    The show will be broadcast every weekday morning between 9.00 and 10.00.
    We're open every day except Sunday.
    I've been out every night this week.
    Every time I go to London I get caught in a traffic jam.
    Ten pence is donated to charity for every bottle sold.
    These paintings may look like the real thing, but (each and) every one of them is a fake.
    That salmon was very expensive so make sure you eat up every (single) bit.
- equally as: 
    Opponents of the war are considered every bit as patriotic as supporters.
- every: 
    We catch the majority of people, but hunting down every last tax evader is impossible.
- in all directions: 
    The game was hindered by a fierce wind that swept the ball every which way.
- in all ways: 
    This movie is in every way a masterpiece of cinematography.
- all the things that you need or want: 
    There'll be an assistant there to see to your every need.
- used to show that something is repeated regularly: 
    Computers can perform millions of calculations every second.
    Every four minutes a car is stolen in this city.
    Every day in the US 25 people are murdered with handguns.
    Every few kilometres we passed a burned out jeep or truck at the side of the road.
    The conference takes place every other/second year.
- sometimes but not often: 
    Every now and again/then they'll have a beer together.
- sometimes but not often: 
    Every so often I treat myself to a meal in an expensive restaurant.
- the greatest possible or that can be imagined: 
    I'd like to wish you every success in your new job/happiness in your new home.
    She has every reason to be unhappy after losing her job and her home.
    You had every opportunity to make a complaint.
    Every effort is being made to minimize civilian casualties.
    She has every right to be proud of her tremendous achievements.
idioms:
 every minute
 (your) every move
 (your) every word
 on/at every corner

enough /ɪˈnʌf/
- as much as is necessary; in the amount or to the degree needed: 
    Is there enough dessert/Are there enough desserts for everyone?
    There are 25 textbooks per class. That should be enough.
    Have you had enough (to eat)?
    I know enough about art to recognize a masterpiece when I see one.
    He's tall enough to change the bulb without getting on a chair.
- as much as or more than is wanted: 
    I've got enough work to do at the moment, without being given any more.
    Half an hour in his company is quite enough!
    Stop. You've made enough of a (= a lot of) mess already.
    You've drunk more than enough (= too much) already.
    I've seen/heard enough now (= I do not want to see/hear any more).
    I've had enough of your excuses (= I want them to stop).
    Enough of this! I don't want to discuss it any more.
    Enough already! (= No more!)
- something you say when you want something to stop: 
    Enough is enough - I don't want to argue with you any more.
- something you say to tell someone that you understand what they have said and that there is no need to say any more: 
    "Someone has to explain the situation to her." "Enough said."
- to want something to stop because it is annoying you: 
    I've had enough - I'm going home.
- used to tell someone to stop behaving badly: 
    That's enough, Peter. Give those toys back, please.
- used after an adjective, adverb, or verb to mean to the necessary degree: 
    Is the water hot enough yet?
    I don't think he's really experienced enough for this sort of job.
    She told me it was brand new and I was stupid enough to believe her.
    Would you be good enough to take my suitcase upstairs for me?
- used after an adjective or adverb to mean quite: 
    He's bad enough, but his brother is far worse.
    She's gone away for six months, but strangely/oddly/funnily enough (= surprisingly), her boyfriend doesn't seem too unhappy about it.

try /traɪ/
- to attempt to do something: 
    Keep trying and you'll find a job eventually.
    If I don't get into the academy this year, I'll try again next year.
    I've tried really hard but I can't convince him to come.
    I'm trying my best/hardest, but I just can't do it.
    I tried to open the window.
    Maybe you should try getting up (= you should get up) earlier.
- to test something to see if it is suitable or useful or if it works: 
    I tried that recipe you gave me last night.
    We don't sell newspapers - have you tried the coffee shop on the corner?
    Try using a different shampoo.
    I'd like to try parachuting.
    I forgot my door-keys - we'd better try the window (= test it to see if it is open).
- used by many people and proved to be effective: 
    Most people would prefer to stick to tried and tested methods of birth control.
- to examine a person accused of committing a crime in a law court by asking them questions and considering known facts, and then decide if they are guilty: 
    Because of security implications the officers were tried in secret.
    They are being tried for murder.
- to worry or annoy someone or upset a person's patience with many, often slight, difficulties: 
    The demands of the job have tried him sorely.
    He's been trying my patience all morning with his constant questions.
    Her endless demands would try the patience of a saint (= are very annoying).
- an attempt to do something: 
    They might still have tickets left - why don't you give it a try?
    This will be her third try at jumping the bar.
    You could ask him if he's willing - it's worth a try.
- (in the game of rugby) the act of a player putting the ball on the ground behind the opposing team's goal line, which scores points for the player's team
idioms:
 try sth for size
 try your hand at sth
 try your luck
 try it on
phrasal verbs:
 try for sth
 try sth on
 try sth out
 try sth out on sb
 try out for sth

hell /hel/
- an extremely unpleasant or difficult place, situation, or experience: 
    Work is sheer hell at the moment.
    The last few months have been absolute hell.
- in some religions, the place where some people are believed to go after death to be punished for ever for the bad things they have done during their lives: 
    I'll go to Hell for this.
- to cause a lot of problems for someone and make them very unhappy: 
    I worked for her for two years and she made my life hell.
- used to express anger or to add emphasis: 
    Oh hell, I've forgotten my key!
    What the hell was that noise?
    We don't have a hope in hell (= we have no hope) of meeting such a tight deadline.
- short form of he will: 
    He'll be there, don't worry.
idioms:
 all hell breaks loose
 come hell or high water
 for the hell of it
 from hell
 give sb hell
 go to hell
 go to hell and back
 hell for leather
 hell on earth
 be hell on wheels
 there'll be hell to pay
 to hell with sb/sth
 when hell freezes over
 annoy, frighten, scare, etc. the hell out of sb
 (as) ... as hell
 be hell-bent on sth
 beat the hell out of sb
 get the hell out of somewhere
 the hell sb is/does, etc.
 hell of a
 hell yes/no
 like hell
 to hell
 what the hell

came /keɪm/
- past simple of come

someone /ˈsʌm.wʌn/
- used to refer to a single person when you do not know who they are or when it is not important who they are: 
    There's someone outside the house.
    Someone must have seen what happened.
    Eventually someone in the audience spoke.
    You'll have to ask someone else.
    We'll need a software engineer or someone (= a person with skill of or like the stated type) on the project team.

own /əʊn/
- belonging to or done by a particular person or thing: 
    Each neighbourhood in New York has its own characteristics.
    I'd like to have my very own apartment.
    He wanted an apartment of his own.
    She makes all her own clothes.
    I'm going to be out tonight, so you'll have to make your own dinner (= prepare it yourself).
    Was that your own idea or did someone suggest it to you?
    You'll have to make up your own mind (= decide by yourself) what you want to do.
    I'd never have believed it if I hadn't seen it with my own eyes/heard it with my own ears.
    "Is that your mum's car?" "No, it's my own (= it belongs to me)."
    James Joyce wrote in a style that was all his own (= that was not like that of anyone else).
    We like to take care of our own (= take care of people who are members of our family, or who work for us).
- alone: 
    I like living on my own.
- without any help: 
    I did my buttons up all on my own, Dad .
- If you do something in your own time, you do it at the speed at which you want to work.
- during the time when you are not officially working: 
    You may only use company computers to access the Web in your own time.
- to have something that legally belongs to you: 
    We own our house.
    I've never owned a suit in my life.
- to admit: 
    I own (that) I was not very happy with the group's decision.
- to defeat someone completely or be much better than him or her; to perform extremely well: 
    Last time we played them, we owned them!
    Beyoncé owned that stage tonight!
idioms:
 be your own person/woman/man
 come into your own
 for its own sake
 get your own back (on sb)
 get your own way
 make sth (all) your own
 on your own head be it
 your own flesh and blood
 as if you owned the place
phrasal verbs:
 own up

family /ˈfæm.əl.i/
- a group of people who are related to each other, such as a mother, a father, and their children: 
    A new family has/have moved in next door.
    I come from a large family - I have three brothers and two sisters.
    He doesn't have any family.
    He's American but his family (= relatives in the past) come/comes from Ireland.
    This movie is good family entertainment (= something that can be enjoyed by parents and children together).
    How do you like family life (= being married, having children, etc.)?
- the children of a family: 
    Women shouldn't have to choose between career and family (= having children).
    Paul and Ana are hoping to start a family (= have children) soon.
    My dad died when we were small so my mum raised the family on her own.
- a pair of adult animals and their babies: 
    We've got a family of squirrels living in our garden.
- a large group of related types of animal or plant: 
    The lion is a member of the cat family.
idioms:
 be in the family way

whole /həʊl/
- complete or not divided: 
    I spent the whole day cleaning.
    There's still a whole month till my birthday.
    After my exercise class, my whole body ached.
    The whole town was destroyed by the earthquake.
    This whole thing (= situation) is ridiculous.
    Bill does nothing but complain the whole time (= all the time).
    You have to stand up in court and promise to tell "the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth".
    Her dance compositions added a whole (= completely) new dimension to the contemporary dance repertoire.
- used to emphasize something: 
    I have a whole pile of work to do this afternoon.
    The new computers are a whole lot (= much) faster.
- as a single object and not in pieces: 
    The seeds can be eaten whole or ground in a coffee grinder.
- completely: 
    Now he's arrived, it's a whole different situation.
- a complete thing: 
    Two halves make a whole.
    You should consider each problem as an aspect of the whole.
- all of something: 
    I'll be on holiday the whole of next week.
    The whole of his finger was bruised.
    The whole of the school (= everyone in the school) had come to the fair.
idioms:
 go the whole hog
 the whole bit
 a whole lot
 the whole lot
 as a whole
 on the whole

another /əˈnʌð.ər/
- one more person or thing or an extra amount: 
    I'm going to have another piece of cake.
    "Would you get me a bar of chocolate from the kitchen?" "Another one?"
    We can fit another person in my car.
    Danny's had yet another car accident.
    For another £30 (= for £30 more) you can buy the model with a touchscreen.
    Just think, in another three months (= three months from now) it'll be summer again.
- a lot of things, one after the other: 
    I'm not surprised he's feeling ill - he was eating one ice cream after another!
- a different person or thing: 
    She's finished with that boyfriend and found herself another (one).
    Do you want to exchange this toaster for another (one) or do you want your money back?
- each other: 
    They gave one another presents when they met at the airport.
- in some way that is not known yet: 
    We'll get out of this mess one way or another.
idioms:
 be another matter/thing
 be another story

house /haʊs/
house | plural houses uk


Your browser doesn't support HTML5 audio






/ˈhaʊ.zɪz/ us


Your browser doesn't support HTML5 audio






/ˈhaʊ.zɪz/
- a building that people, usually one family, live in: 
    a detached/semi-detached house
    to buy/rent a house
    house prices
    She lives in a little house in (US on) Cross Street.
- all the people living in a house: 
    Try not to wake the whole house when you come in!
- a building where animals are kept: 
    the monkey/lion house at the zoo
    a hen house
- a building or part of a building that is used for a special purpose: 
    the Sydney Opera House
    Broadcasting House
- a company that is involved in a particular area of business: 
    a publishing house
    a fashion house
    a curry house (= a South Asian restaurant)
- popular dance music with a fast regular beat, usually produced on electronic equipment: 
    House music first appeared in the late 1980s.
- any of a small number of groups that the children in a school are put in for sports and other competitions: 
    an inter-house hockey match
- an important family, especially a royal one: 
    The British Royal Family belong to the House of Windsor.
- an organization that makes laws, or its meeting place
- the members of the organization that makes laws: 
    The House began debating the proposal at 3 p.m.
- the group of people who suggest a subject for a debate: 
    The motion for tonight's debate is, "This house believes that capital punishment should be abolished."
- the people watching a performance, especially in a theatre: 
    The opera played to a full/packed house.
- to give a person or animal a place to live, or to provide space for something: 
    It will be difficult to house all the refugees.
    The museum houses the biggest collection of antique toys in Europe.
idioms:
 get on like a house on fire
 get/put your own house in order
 go (all) round the houses
 house of cards
 on the house

yourself strong /jɔːˈself/
yourself | plural yourselves
- used when the subject of the verb is "you" or the person being spoken to, and the object is the same person: 
    Be careful with that knife or you'll cut yourself!
    Katie, control yourself!
- used for emphasis when the subject is "you": 
    Did you make the dress yourself?
    You can do that yourself.
- to behave in your usual manner, rather than behaving in a way you think other people might like: 
    The best thing you can do is to go into the interview and just be yourself.
- alone or without help from anyone else: 
    I'm amazed you managed to move those boxes all by yourself.
    Do you like being by yourself sometimes or do you get lonely?
- for your use only: 
    So you have the whole house to yourself this weekend?
- not to be, seem, or feel as happy or healthy as usual: 
    Why don't you go home early if you're not feeling yourself?
- used when asking someone about their state of mind when they are physically ill: 
    I know you must still be uncomfortable, but how are you in yourself?
- used when both the subject and object of the verb are "you" and "you" is also being used to refer to people generally: 
    You tell yourself everything's all right but you know it's not really.

idea /aɪˈdɪə/
- a suggestion or plan for doing something: 
    I've had an idea - why don't we go to the coast?
    "Let's go swimming." "That's a good idea!"
    If you have any ideas for what I could buy Jack, let me know.
    That's when I first had the idea of starting (= planned to start) my own business.
    I like the idea of living in the countryside but I'm not sure I'd like the reality.
    She's full of bright (= good) ideas.
    It was Kate's idea to hire bikes.
    It's not a good idea to drive for hours without a rest.
- an understanding, thought, or picture in your mind: 
    Do you have any idea of what he looks like?
    Can you give me an idea of the cost (= can you tell me approximately how it costs)?
    I don't like the idea of living so far away from my family.
    I haven't the slightest/faintest idea where they've gone.
    I've got a pretty good idea why they left early.
- to not know something: 
    "Where's Serge?" "I've no idea."
- a belief or opinion: 
    We have very different ideas about disciplining children.
    Dr Leach puts forward the idea that it is impossible to spoil a child.
    I'm not married - where did you get that idea (= what made you believe that)?
- a purpose or reason for doing something: 
    The idea of the game is to get rid of all your cards as soon as you can.
    The whole idea (= only purpose) of advertising is to make people buy things.
    The idea behind the lottery is to raise money for good causes.
idioms:
 your idea of sth
 put ideas into sb's head
 what an idea!
 you have no idea

ask /ɑːsk/
- to put a question to someone, or to request an answer from someone: 
    She asked me a question.
    She asked a question about Welsh history.
    She asked me about Welsh history.
    She asked about Welsh history.
    I've no idea what time the train leaves. Ask the guard whether he knows.
    I asked the guard the time of the train's departure.
    I asked when the train would leave.
    "What time does the train leave?" I asked.
- to consider something carefully: 
    She needs to ask herself why nobody seems to like her.
- to speak or write to someone saying that you want them to do something, to give you something, or to allow you to do something: 
    If you need any help, please don't hesitate to ask.
    She asked (her manager) if/whether she could leave early to pick up the kids.
    I asked to see my accountant.
    You should ask (your accountant) for some financial advice.
    You should ask your accountant to give you some financial advice.
    Can I ask you a favour?/formal Can I ask a favour of you?
    I'd like to ask your advice/opinion on a financial matter.
    You have to ask permission to leave.
    We ask that any faulty goods be returned in their original packaging.
    The solicitor asked that her client be allowed to make a phone call.
- to request or invite someone to go somewhere with you or to come to your home: 
    I've asked David to the party.
    I've asked David to come to the party.
    "Are you going to Muriel's party?" "No, I haven't been asked."
    Jorge has asked us over for dinner next Friday.
    Ian's asked us round to/for dinner next Friday.
    In fact they've asked us to stay for the whole weekend.
- to expect or demand something: 
    Greg's asking (= expecting to be paid) £250,000 for his house.
    He asks too much of me - I can't always be there to help him.
    It's asking a lot when your boss wants you to work weekends as well as evenings.
idioms:
 be sb's for the asking
 be asking for it/trouble
 don't ask me
 I ask you!
 if you ask me
 you may well ask
phrasal verbs:
 ask after sb
 ask around
 ask for sb
 ask for sb/sth
 ask sb in
 ask sb out

best /best/
- of the highest quality, or being the most suitable, pleasing, or effective type of thing or person: 
    This is the best meal I've ever had.
    He's one of our best students.
    Are you sure this is the best way of doing it?
    What's the best (= shortest or quickest) way to get to their house?
    Your parents only want what is best for you.
    She was my best friend (= the friend I liked most).
    It's best (= it is wise) to get to the supermarket early.
- in the most suitable, pleasing, or satisfactory way, or to the greatest degree: 
    Which evening would suit you best for the party?
    The Grand Canyon is best seen at sunset.
    He couldn't decide which one he liked best (= preferred).
- to the greatest degree when used as the superlative of adjectives beginning with "good" or "well": 
    They were the best-dressed couple at the party.
    He was voted the best-looking (= most attractive) actor in Hollywood.
- as well as you can: 
    It is a difficult passage, but just translate it as best you can.
- the most excellent in a group of things or people: 
    My tastes are simple - I only like the best.
    He wanted the best for his children - good schools, a nice house, and trips abroad.
    I like all of Hitchcock's films, but I think "Notorious" is the best.
    Chris and I are the best of friends (= we are very close friends).
- used at the end of a friendly message or letter before writing your name: 
    I'll call you early next week to set up a lunch date. Can't wait to meet you. Best, Beth Morris
- used to say goodbye, or to end a letter to someone you know well, or to send good wishes to someone: 
    All the best to your parents!
- even when considered in the most positive way: 
    The food was bland at best, and at worst completely inedible.
- at the highest standard that can be achieved: 
    The documentary was an example of investigative journalism at its best.
- to be as active or intelligent as you can be: 
    I'm not at my best in the morning.
- this is the most pleasing thing: 
    There was wonderful food, good company, and, best of all, a jazz band.
- used to wish someone success before a test, etc. or a difficult activity: 
    Best of luck on your finals!
    Best of luck with your finals!
    We would like to wish you the (very) best of luck on/with your move to France.
- In a sport such as tennis, if you play the best of a particular number of games, you play that number of games and the winner is the player who wins the greatest number of those games: 
    Shall we play the best of five?
- to make the greatest effort possible: 
    It doesn't matter if you fail, just do your best.
- If you have had the best of something, you have enjoyed the most pleasant part of it, and everything that is left is worse: 
    I think we've already had the best of the hot weather this summer.
- as well as you can: 
    Just do the job to the best of your ability.
- from what I know and understand from the information that I have: 
    To the best of my knowledge, the chemicals which were found are not dangerous.
- If an action is for the best, it is done to improve a situation or produce a good result, although it might seem unpleasant at the time: 
    Ending a relationship is always hard but in this case it's for the best.
- to make an unsatisfactory situation as pleasant as possible: 
    We'll have to spend the night here, so we might as well make the best of it.
- to defeat someone in a fight or competition: 
    He bested his opponent in just two rounds.
idioms:
 be on your best behaviour
 best bet
 be the best thing since sliced bread
 may the best man/person win!
 put your best foot forward
 with the best will in the world
 do as you think best
 had best
 at the best of times
 the best of a bad bunch/lot
 the best of both worlds
 the best of British (luck)
 with the best of them

must strong /mʌst/
- used to show that it is necessary or very important that something happens in the present or future: 
    Meat must be cooked thoroughly.
    I must get some sleep.
    You mustn't show this letter to anyone else.
    Luggage must not be left unattended (= it is against the rules).
    Must you leave so soon?
    "Must I sign this?" "Yes, you must."
- If you say that you must do something, you mean that you strongly intend to do something in the future: 
    I must phone my sister.
    We must get someone to fix that wheel.
    I mustn't bite my nails.
- used for emphasis: 
    I must say, you look absolutely great.
    I must admit, I wasn't looking forward to it.
- If you tell someone else that they must do something pleasant, you are emphasizing that you think it is a good idea to do that: 
    You must come and stay with us one weekend.
    We must meet for lunch soon.
- used to show that something is very likely, probable, or certain to be true: 
    Harry's been driving all day - he must be tired.
    There's no food left - we must have eaten it all.
    When you got lost in the forest you must have been very frightened.
    "You must know Frank." "No, I don't."
- something that is necessary: 
    If you live in the country a car is a must.
- something that is so good, you must do it, have it, or see it: 
    The cashmere scarf is this season's must-have.
    It's a moderately entertaining film but it's certainly not a must-see.

old /əʊld/
- having lived or existed for many years: 
    an old man
    We're all getting older.
    I was shocked by how old he looked.
    Now come on, you're old enough to tie your own shoelaces, Carlos.
    I'm too old to be out in the clubs every night.
    a beautiful old farm house in the country
    a battered old car
    That's an old joke - I've heard it about a thousand times.
    I think this cheese is old, judging by the smell of it.
- unsuitable because intended for older people: 
    Don't you think that book is too old for you?
- used to describe or ask about someone's age: 
    How old is your father?
    Rosie's six years old now.
    It's not very dignified behaviour for a 54-year-old man.
    He's a couple of years older than me.
- from a period in the past: 
    I saw my old English teacher last time I went home.
    He bought me a new phone to replace my old one.
    She showed me her old school.
    I saw an old boyfriend of mine.
    In my old job I had less responsibility.
- a language when it was in an early stage in its development
- (especially of a friend) known for a long time: 
    She's one of my oldest friends - we met in kindergarten.
- used before someone's name when you are referring to or talking to them, to show that you know that person well and like them: 
    There's old Sara working away in the corner.
    I hear poor old Frank's lost his job.
- old people considered together as a group: 
    These cuts in services will particularly affect the old.
idioms:
 be (as) old as the hills
 for old times' sake
 of old
 of the old school
 the oldest profession (in the world)
 the oldest trick in the book

woman /ˈwʊm.ən/
woman | plural women uk


Your browser doesn't support HTML5 audio






/ˈwɪmɪn/ us


Your browser doesn't support HTML5 audio







- an adult female human being: 
    She's a really nice woman.
    A woman and two men were arrested the day after the explosion.
    Women first got the vote in Britain in 1918.
    She is Ireland's first woman (= female) president.
- a wife or female sexual partner: 
    Apparently, Jeff has a new woman.
- women in general: 
    He is writing a book on the representation of woman in medieval art.
- used to form nouns describing certain types of women or women with certain jobs: 
    an Englishwoman/Frenchwoman
    a chairwoman

hello /heˈləʊ/
- used when meeting or greeting someone: 
    Hello, Paul. I haven't seen you for ages.
    I know her vaguely - we've exchanged hellos a few times.
    I just thought I'd call by and say hello.
    And a big hello (= welcome) to all the parents who've come to see the show.
- something that is said at the beginning of a phone conversation: 
    "Hello, I'd like some information about flights to the US, please."
- something that is said to attract someone's attention: 
    The front door was open so she walked inside and called out, "Hello! Is there anybody in?"
- said to someone who has just said or done something stupid, especially something that shows they are not noticing what is happening: 
    She asked me if I'd just arrived and I was like "Hello, I've been here for an hour."
- an expression of surprise: 
    Hello, this is very strange - I know that man.

which /wɪtʃ/
- (used in questions and structures in which there is a fixed or limited set of answers or possibilities) what one or ones: 
    Which party would you prefer to go to - Anna's or Dan's ?
    Which doctor did you see - Seward?
    Which time suits you better - 12.30 or one o'clock?
    "Jacinta was there with her boyfriend." "Which one? She has several."
    Which is mine? The smaller one?
    See if you can guess which one is me in my old school photo.
    It's either Spanish or Portuguese that she speaks, but I've forgotten which.
    Which of the desserts did you have?
    Which of your parents do you feel closer to?
- used to add extra information to a previous clause, in writing usually after a comma: 
    That bar on Milton Street, which by the way is very nice, is owned by Trevor's brother.
    She says it's Charlotte's fault, which is stupid, and that she blames her.
    Anyway, that evening, which I'll tell you more about later, I ended up staying at Rachel's place.
    It's the third in a sequence of three books, the first of which I really enjoyed.
    He showed me round the town, which was very kind of him.
    The picking of the fruit, for which work they receive no money, takes about a week.
- used as the subject or object of a verb to show what thing or things you are referring to, or to add information about the thing just mentioned. It is usually used for things, not people: 
    These are principles which we all believe in.
    You know that little Italian restaurant - the one which I mentioned in my letter?
    Is that the film in which he kills his mother?
    The death of his son was an experience from which he never fully recovered.
    It isn't a subject to which I devote a great deal of thought.
idioms:
 which is which

room /ruːm/
- a part of the inside of a building that is separated from other parts by walls, floor, and ceiling: 
    I like this room - it has plenty of light.
    I could hear people talking in the next room.
    She's waiting for you in the conference room upstairs.
    The whole room (= all the people in the room) turned and looked at her.
- a bedroom: 
    She's upstairs in her room.
    Go tidy your room, or you can't watch TV tonight.
    a single/double room (= a bedroom for one person/two people)
- used as a combining form in the names of particular rooms: 
    a bedroom
    a bathroom
    a dining room
    a living room
- a set of rented rooms, especially in a college or university
- the amount of space that someone or something needs: 
    That sofa would take up too much room in the flat.
    James took the books off the little table to make room for the television.
    He's fainted! Don't crowd him - give him room.
    Is there (enough/any) room for me in the car?
    There's hardly room to move in here.
- opportunity for doing something: 
    I feel the company has little room for/to manoeuvre.
- to rent a room from someone, or share a rented room with someone: 
    At college he rooms with this guy from Nebraska.
idioms:
 no room for sth
 room for doubt
 room for improvement
 no/not enough room to swing a cat

money /ˈmʌn.i/
- coins or notes (= special pieces of paper) that are used to buy things, or an amount of these that a person has: 
    "How much money do you have on you?" "€100 in notes and a few coins."
    We invested the money in a high-interest bank account.
    I wanted to buy it but it cost too much money (= was too expensive).
    We spent so much money redecorating the house that we didn't have any left over for a holiday.
    You'll have to change some money (= buy some foreign money) at the bank.
    How much money do you earn?
    He enjoyed acting but he wasn't making (= earning) much money.
    Her investments haven't made (= produced as profit) much money this year.
    They made their money (= became rich) in the fashion business.
    He tried to persuade me to put money into the company (= invest in the company).
    The school needs to raise (= collect) money for new playground equipment.
    Try to save (= keep) some money for your holiday.
    We're saving (= not spending as much) money by using volunteers.
    I didn't like the job, but the money (= amount of pay) was good.
    Money is tight/short (= we don't have much money) at the moment.
    I had some very expensive dental treatment recently, but it was money well spent - it'll save me problems in the future.
- If you say that there is money in something, you mean that the activity will produce a profit: 
    There's money in sport these days.
    If you help us, there's money in it for you.
idioms:
 be in the money
 be made of money
 for my money
 get/have your money's worth
 have money
 have money to burn
 marry money
 money doesn't grow on trees
 money for old rope
 money talks
 (right) on the money
 put (your) money on sb/sth
 put your money where your mouth is
 you pays your money and you takes your choice/chance

left /left/
- on or towards the side of your body that is to the west when you are facing north: 
    His left eye was heavily bandaged.
    Turn left at the lights.
- the left side: 
    First I'll introduce the speaker sitting on my left.
    Take the first/second/third on the left.
    It's the street to the left of the hotel.
    After the grocery store I made/took/informal hung a left (= turned into the next road on the left side).
- the political groups that believe wealth and power should be shared between all parts of society: 
    The war is generally opposed on the left.
- past simple and past participle of
leave 
- relating to political groups that believe wealth and power should be shared between all parts of society: 
    The left wing of the party is unhappy with the legislation.

tonight /təˈnaɪt/
- (during) the night of the present day: 
    Tonight will be my first chance to meet her.
    Tonight's meeting will take place in the school hall.

real /rɪəl/
- existing in fact and not imaginary: 
    Assuring the patient that she has a real and not imaginary problem is the first step.
    There is a very real threat that he will lose his job.
- the value of earnings, etc. after the effect of rising prices is considered: 
    Wages rose by 2.9 percent last year, but real earnings still fell by 1.3 percent.
- after considering things that affect what a number or amount really means, such as the effect of rising prices: 
    Average earnings rose 5 percent in real terms after deducting income tax.
- things as they really are, not as they exist in the imagination, in a story, on the internet, etc.: 
    Over-protecting children does not equip them to deal with the real world.
    Why waste time on virtual friendships, when there are people out there in the real world who want to spend time with you?
- being what it appears to be and not false: 
    real leather/fur
    Is that a toy gun or the real thing?
- (especially of foods) produced using traditional methods and without artificial substances: 
    The pub sells several kinds of real ale (= traditional beer).
- real, not pretended: 
    I thought it was just a drill but apparently it was for real.
- the most important; the main: 
    The real difficulty was the language, because my children don't speak English.
    Novelty value may be a part of it, but the real reason people like our paper is that it speaks the truth.
- used to emphasize a noun: 
    He's a real gentleman.
    She was a real help.
    It's a real nuisance.
- very: 
    I like this homemade lemonade, it's real good!
    It's real easy to do.
- the standard unit of money used in Brazil: 
    The Brazilian real has gained 83 percent in value against the dollar.
    The dam is expected to cost 9.5 billion reals.
idioms:
 get real!
 is he/she for real?

son /sʌn/
- your male child: 
    This is our son Raja.
    We have two sons and three daughters.
- used as an informal form of address by a man to a boy: 
    Come on, son, we don't have all day.
- a man who was born in a particular place: 
    that notable son of Württemberg, Martin Brecht

hope /həʊp/
- to want something to happen or to be true, and usually have a good reason to think that it might: 
    I'm hoping for an interview next week.
    She's hoping (that) she won't be away too long.
    I hope (that) she'll win.
    We have to hope and pray (that) the operation will go well.
    They hope to visit us next year.
    It's good news, I hope.
    "Will you be at the meeting tomorrow?" "I hope not/so".
- something good that you want to happen in the future, or a confident feeling about what will happen in the future: 
    What are your hopes and dreams for the future?
    Is there any hope of getting financial support for the project?
    Is there any hope that they will be home in time?
    Young people are growing up in our cities without any hope of finding a job.
    His reply dashed (= destroyed) our hopes.
    They have pinned (all) their hopes on (= they are depending for success on) their new player.
    She's very ill, but there's still hope/we live in hope (= we think she might be cured).
    The situation is now beyond/past hope (= unlikely to produce the desired result).
    We never gave up hope (= stopped hoping) that she would be found alive.
    The letter offered us a glimmer/ray of (= a little) hope.
    I didn't phone until four o'clock in the hope that you'd be finished.
    I don't hold out much hope of getting (= I don't expect to be able to get) a ticket.
idioms:
 hope against hope
 hope for the best
 not have a hope in hell

name /neɪm/
- the word or words that a person, thing, or place is known by: 
    "Hi, what's your name?" "My name's Diane."
    Please write your full (= complete) name and address on the form.
    What's the name of that mountain in the distance?
    We finally agreed on the name Luca for our son.
    The students were listed by name and by country of origin.
- the opinion or reputation that someone or something has: 
    She went to court to clear her name (= prove that the bad things said about her were not true).
    The fans' actions gave our team a bad name in the youth league at that time.
    They're trying to restore the good name of the manufacturer.
- someone who is famous or has a good reputation: 
    It seemed like all the big names in football were there.
- called: 
    I need to talk to a professor by the name of Bin Said.
- to give yourself a name that is not your real name: 
    In the business world he goes by the name of J. Walter Fortune.
- for someone or belonging to someone: 
    I'm here to pick up my tickets - I reserved them by phone yesterday in the name of Tremin.
    The house is in my wife's name.
- to give someone or something a name: 
    We named our dogs Shandy and Belle.
    A man named Dennis answered the door.
- to say what something or someone's name is: 
    In the first question you had to name three types of monkey.
    He couldn't name his attacker.
- to choose someone or something: 
    Just name the time and I'll be there.
    Name your conditions/terms/price.
    Ms Martinez has been named (as) the new Democratic candidate.
idioms:
 be a name to conjure with
 in all but name
 in God's/heaven's name
 in name only
 in the name of sth
 in the name of sb/sth
 make a name for yourself
 your name is mud
 the name of the game
 take sb's name in vain
 to your name
 under the name of
 name and shame
 name names
 name the day
 you name it
phrasal verbs:
 name sb/sth after sb/sth

same /seɪm/
- exactly like another or each other: 
    My twin sister and I have the same nose.
    She was wearing exactly the same dress as I was.
    Hilary's the same age as me.
    She brought up her children in just (= exactly) the same way her mother did.
- not another different place, time, situation, person, or thing: 
    My brother and I sleep in the same room.
    Rachel's still going out with the same boyfriend.
    That (very) same day, he heard he'd passed his exams.
    I would do the same thing again if I had the chance.
    They eat at the same restaurant every week.
    Shall we meet up at the same time tomorrow?
- exactly like: 
    People say I look just the same as my sister.
    John thinks the same as I do - it's just too expensive.
- not changed: 
    After all these years you look exactly the same - you haven't changed a bit.
    Charles is just the same as always.
- not another different thing or situation: 
    I'm terrible at physics, and it's the same with chemistry - I get it all wrong.
- not another different person: 
    "Was that Marion on the phone?" "The (very) same."
- in the same way: 
    We treat all our children the same.
    I need some time to myself, the same as anybody else.
idioms:
 at the same time
 be in the same boat
 by the same token
 it all amounts/comes to the same thing
 it's the same old story
 not in the same league
 one and the same
 same difference
 same old same old
 the same old thing
 all the same
 be all the same to sb
 not the same
 same again
 same here
 same to you

happy /ˈhæp.i/
- feeling, showing, or causing pleasure or satisfaction: 
    a happy marriage/childhood
    She looks so happy.
    School days are said to be the happiest days of your life.
    Nicky seems a lot happier since she met Steve.
    You'll be happy to know that Jean is coming with us.
    I'm perfectly happy to (= I will willingly) help out.
    I'm so happy (that) everything is working out for you.
    Barry seems happy enough working for himself.
    Are you happy about/with (= satisfied with) your new working arrangements?
    Your mother's not going to be very happy when she sees the mess you've made!
    The manager will be happy (= is willing) to see you this afternoon.
- (used in greetings for special occasions) full of enjoyment and pleasure: 
    Happy Birthday!
    Happy Anniversary!
    Happy New Year!
- (of a condition or situation) lucky: 
    We hadn't planned to be in France at the same time as Ann and Charles - it was just a happy coincidence.
- (of words or behaviour) suitable: 
    It wasn't a happy choice of phrase given the circumstances.
idioms:
 the happy day
 the happy event
 happy place
 not be a happy camper

pretty /ˈprɪt.i/
- quite, but not extremely: 
    The house has four bedrooms, so it's pretty big.
    I'm pretty sure it was her.
    I've got a pretty good idea of how to get there.
- almost: 
    I've pretty much finished here.
    She knows pretty well everything there is to know on the subject.
- pleasant to look at, or (especially of girls or women or things relating to them) attractive or pleasant in a delicate way: 
    That's a pretty hat you're wearing.
    The sofa was covered in very pretty flowery material.
    She's got such a pretty daughter.
idioms:
 cost sb a pretty penny
 not be a pretty sight
 not be just a pretty face
 a pretty pass
 pretty please

girl /ɡɜːl/
- a female child or young woman, especially one still at school: 
    Two girls showed us round the classrooms.
- a daughter: 
    We have two girls.
    My little girl is five.
- a woman worker, especially when seen as one of a group: 
    shop/office girls
- a group of female friends: 
    I'm going out with the girls tonight.
    The girls at work gave it to me.
idioms:
 a big/great girl's blouse

sir /sɜːr/
- used as a formal and polite way of speaking to a man, especially one who you are providing a service to or who is in a position of authority: 
    Would you like to see the menu, sir?
    "Did you hear what I said?" "Yes, Sir."
- sometimes used by children to address or refer to teachers who are men: 
    Can I go to the toilet, sir?
- used after the name of a man, especially one who is in a position of authority, in order to be polite or show respect: 
    John Sir
- used to begin a formal letter to a man whose name you do not know. "Dear Sirs" is an old fashioned way of beginning a letter to a company.
- used to begin a formal letter when you do not know if the person you are writing to is a man or a woman
- used as the title of a knight (= a man who has been given a rank of honour by a British king or queen), with a first name or with both first and family names, but never with just the family name: 
    Sir Walter (Scott)
idioms:
 no sir

show /ʃəʊ/
show | showed | shown
- to make it possible for something to be seen: 
    Let me show you this new book I've just bought.
    On this map, urban areas are shown in grey.
    You ought to show that rash to your doctor.
    Why won't you show me what's in your hand?
    The secretly filmed video shows the prince and princess kissing.
    These photographs show the effects of the chemical on the trees.
    He began to show signs of recovery.
    "This is a Victorian gold coin." "Is it? Show me (= allow me to see it)."
- to record or express a number or measurement: 
    The right-hand dial shows the temperature, and the left-hand one shows the air pressure.
    The company showed a loss of $2 million last year.
    The latest crime figures show a sharp rise in burglaries.
- to explain something to someone, by doing it or by giving instructions or examples: 
    Can you show me how to set the DVD player?
    This dictionary contains many examples that show how words are actually used.
    Could you show me the way to the bus station?
- to prove something or make the truth or existence of something known: 
    She has shown herself (to be) a highly competent manager.
    His diaries show him to have been an extremely insecure person.
    The diaries show (that) he was very insecure.
    Show me (that) I can trust you.
    Our research has shown (us) how little we know about this disease.
- to express ideas or feelings using actions or words: 
    He finds it difficult to show affection.
    She showed enormous courage when she rescued him from the fire.
    You should show your parents more respect/show more respect to your parents.
- to be easy to see or notice: 
    "Oh no, I've spilled red wine on my jacket!" "Don't worry, it doesn't show."
    Whatever she's thinking, she never lets it show.
    I've painted over the graffiti twice, but it still shows through.
    The drug does not show up in blood tests because it is effective in very small quantities.
    When we moved in, the house hadn't been decorated for 20 years, and it showed.
- When a pregnant woman shows, it is possible to see that she is pregnant: 
    Once she started to show, people started treating her differently.
    Although I'm not showing yet, my baby is due in the spring.
- to look as old as you really are: 
    Recently, he's really starting to show his age.
- to make an artist's work available for the public to see: 
    Our aim is to make it easier for young unknown artists to show their work.
- If a cinema or television station shows a film or programme, or if a film or programme is showing somewhere, you can see it there: 
    It's the first time this movie has been shown on television.
    Now showing at a cinema near you!
- to 
show up informal 
- to take someone somewhere by going there with them: 
    Could you show Dr Sanchez into the living room?
    The waiter showed us to our table.
- to fail to hide something, or to make it possible to see or know something that is not intended to be seen or known: 
    Your shirt's so thin that it shows your bra.
    Light-coloured carpets show the dirt.
    His failure in the exams shows (up) just how bad his teachers are.
- to make someone understand something by directing their attention to it: 
    Can you show me where it hurts?
    Show me which one you want.
- a theatre performance or a television or radio programme that is entertaining rather than serious: 
    a radio/television/stage show
    a quiz/game show
    Why don't we go to London on Saturday and see a show?
    We had to raise £60,000 to stage the show.
    We had a puppet show for Jamie's birthday party.
- an event at which a group of related things are available for the public to look at: 
    a fashion/flower show
    There were some amazing new cars at the motor show.
    They put on a retrospective show of his work at the National Museum of American Art.
- Something that is on show has been made available for the public to look at: 
    Her sculptures will be on show at the museum until the end of the month.
- an action that makes other people know what your feelings, beliefs, or qualities are: 
    In a show of solidarity, the management and workers have joined forces to campaign against the closure of the factory.
    Over 100 military vehicles paraded through the capital in a show of strength.
- an activity or piece of work that appears to be done with great, little, etc. effort: 
    She may not have won, but she certainly put up a good show.
- an appearance of something that is not really sincere or real: 
    Despite its public show of unity, the royal family had its share of disagreements just like any other.
    They put on a show of being interested, but I don't think they really were.
- Something that is for show has no practical value and is used only to improve the appearance of something else: 
    Do the lights on this phone have any useful function or are they just/only for show?
- an activity, business, or organization, considered in relation to who is managing it: 
    Who will run the show when Meg retires?
    The wedding is their show - let them do it their way.
- a small amount of blood and mucus (= thick liquid) that comes out of the vagina at the start of labour (= the process of giving birth): 
    the bloody show
idioms:
 have something/nothing to show for sth
 show your face
 show your hand
 show sb the door
 show (sb) the way
 that will show sb
 get the/this show on the road
 the show must go on
phrasal verbs:
 show sb around (sth)
 show off
 show sth/sb off
 show sb out
 show yourself out
 show sb over sth
 show sb round (sth)
 show up
 show sb up

already /ɔːlˈred.i/
- before the present time: 
    I asked him to come to the exhibition but he'd already seen it.
    The concert had already begun by the time we arrived.
    I've already told him.
    As I have already mentioned, I doubt that we will be able to raise all the money we need.
- earlier than the time expected: 
    Are you buying Christmas cards already? It's only September!
    I've only eaten one course and I'm already full.
- used to show that you are losing patience and want someone to stop doing something or to do something more quickly: 
    Enough already! I heard you the first time!
    Just ask him already!
idioms:
 ... already!

may /meɪ/
- used to express possibility: 
    There may be other problems that we don't know about.
    I may see you tomorrow before I leave.
    The cause of the accident may never be discovered.
    The explosion may have been caused by a faulty electrical connection.
    We'd better not interfere - she may not like it.
    There may be some evidence to suggest she's guilty, but it's hardly conclusive.
- used to ask or give permission: 
    A reader may borrow up to six books at any one time.
    "May I help myself to some more food?" "Yes, of course."
    Hi, my name's Tiffany. How may I help you?
- used to introduce a wish or a hope: 
    May you have a long and fruitful marriage.
- the flowers of the hawthorn tree
- the fifth month of the year, after April and before June: 
    My mother's birthday is in May.
    They got married on 12 May.
    We're supposed to be moving into new offices next May.
idioms:
 be that as it may
 may I ask
 may well

next /nekst/
- being the first one after the present one or after the one just mentioned: 
    Who works in the office next to yours?
    Take the next street on the right.
    Who do you think will be the next president?
    Nothing really changes around here. One day is pretty much like the next.
    (The) next time you want to borrow something, please ask me first.
    I'm so busy it's hard to remember what I'm supposed to be doing from one minute to the next.
    She's away for the next few days.
    You'll have to wait until your next birthday for a new bike.
    Can we arrange a meeting for the week after next?
    What do you think you'll be doing this time next year?
    We had a big argument, but he called me the next day (= the day after) to apologize.
    Excuse me, it's my turn - I was next.
- immediately after: 
    So what happened next?
    What would you like next?
    First, fry the garlic. Next, add the ginger.
- The time when you next do something is the first time you do it again: 
    When are you next going to Toronto?
- used when describing two people or things that are very close to each other with nothing between them: 
    Can I sit next to the window?
    There was a really strange man standing next to me at the train station.
- used to mean `after' when making a choice or a comparison: 
    Cheese is my favourite food and, next to that, chocolate. (= Cheese is the only food that I like more than chocolate.)
- almost: 
    They pay me next to nothing (= very little) but I really enjoy the work.
    It's next to impossible (= extremely difficult) to find somewhere cheap to live around here.
    We got home in next to no time (= very little time).
- next in order to appear or happen, often in some form of entertainment: 
    Next up is the latest news from the presidential campaign .
idioms:
 as much as the next person
 the next best thing
 the next but one
 the next thing I knew

three /θriː/
- the number 3: 
    I've got three sisters.
    School finishes at three (o'clock).
idioms:
 the three Rs

found /faʊnd/
- past simple and past participle of
find 
- to bring something into existence: 
    Boston was founded in 1630 by Puritan colonists from England.
    She left a large sum of money in her will to found a wildlife sanctuary.
    We are planning a dinner to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the founding of the company.
- to build a support in the ground for a large structure such as a building or road
- to base a belief, claim, idea, etc. on something: 
    Her lawyer accused the prosecution of founding its case on insufficient evidence.
    I'd like to see the research that these recommendations are founded on.
    a society founded on egalitarian principles

world /wɜːld/
- the earth and all the people, places, and things on it: 
    Different parts of the world have very different climatic conditions.
    Which bridge has the longest span in the world?
    News of the disaster shocked the (whole/entire) world.
    We live in a changing world and people must learn to adapt.
    She's a world authority on foetal development.
    a world record/championship
- a group of things such as countries or animals, or an area of human activity or understanding: 
    the Muslim world
    the modern/industrialized world
    the animal world
    stars from the rock music world
    Unexpected things can happen in the world of subatomic particles.
- a planet or other part of the universe, especially one where life might or does exist: 
    There was a man on the news last night who believes we've been visited by beings from other worlds.
idioms:
 at one with the world
 be worlds apart
 do sb the world of good
 for all the world
 go/come down in the world
 go/come up in the world
 have the world at your feet
 in a world of your own
 make a world of difference
 make the world go around/round
 a man/woman of the world
 mean the world to sb
 not for the world
 out of this world
 the ways of the world
 what, how, why, etc. in the world
 what's the world coming to?
 the world and his wife
 the world is sb's oyster
 a world of difference

honey /ˈhʌn.i/
- a sweet, sticky, yellow substance made by bees and used as food: 
    set honey/runny honey
    clover honey
- a name that you call someone you love or like very much: 
    Hi, honey, I'm home!

myself /maɪˈself/
- used when the subject of the verb is "I" and the object is the same person: 
    I bought myself a new coat.
    I caught sight of myself in the mirror.
    Yes, I thought to myself, it's time to take a holiday.
- used to emphasize "I" as the subject of a sentence: 
    I myself don't like a heavy meal at lunchtime.
    I don't like a heavy meal at lunchtime myself.
- used instead of "I" or "me": 
    My husband and myself were delighted with the gift.
    They very kindly invited my sister and myself to the inauguration.
- alone or without help from anyone else: 
    I live by myself .
    I had to do the whole job all by myself .
- for my use only: 
    I never get an hour to myself.
- not to be, seem, or feel as happy or as healthy as usual: 
    I went to see the doctor because I haven't been feeling myself lately.
- used when describing your state of mind when you are physically ill: 
    I'm well enough in myself (= happy) - I've just got this nagging headache.
idioms:
 keep (myself) to myself

exactly /ɪɡˈzækt.li/
- used when you are giving or asking for information that is completely correct: 
    The journey took exactly three hours.
    That'll be £15 exactly, please.
    It tastes exactly the same as the real thing, but has half the fat.
    The building looks exactly as it did when it was built in 1877.
    "What you seem to be saying is that more should be invested in the road system and less in the railways." "Exactly" (= that is correct).
- used to emphasize what you are saying: 
    Do exactly what I tell you and no one will get hurt!
    Exactly how do you propose to achieve this?
    What exactly do you mean?
- used for saying that someone or something is slightly different from a particular way of describing him, her, or it: 
    He's not exactly good-looking, but he has a certain attraction.
- used for saying that something is not completely true: 
    "So you gave her your iPod?" "Not exactly, I lent it to her."
- used for saying that something is the opposite of a particular way of describing it: 
    Answer the question - it's not exactly difficult.

probably /ˈprɒb.ə.bli/
- used to mean that something is very likely: 
    I'll probably be home by midnight.
    I'm probably going - it depends on the weather.
    He probably didn't even notice.
    Probably the best thing to do is to call them before you go.

hurt /hɜːt/
hurt | hurt | hurt
- to feel pain in a part of your body, or to injure someone or cause them pain: 
    Tell me where it hurts.
    My head hurts.
    She says that her ear hurts her.
    Emma hurt her back when she fell off her horse.
    Several people were seriously/badly hurt in the explosion.
- to cause emotional pain to someone: 
    She criticized my writing quite severely and that hurt.
    He was badly hurt by the end of his marriage.
- to cause harm or difficulty: 
    A lot of businesses are being hurt by the current high interest rates.
    These allegations have seriously hurt her reputation.
    Hard work never hurt anyone (= does no one any harm).
    One more drink won't hurt (= won't cause any harm).
- injured or in pain: 
    Let me help you up. Are you hurt?
    Put that knife away before someone gets hurt.
- upset or unhappy: 
    I feel very hurt by what you said.
    "That was very unkind," he said in a hurt voice.
- emotional pain: 
    The hurt after a relationship breaks up can be awful.
    Her brave smile concealed a deep hurt.
idioms:
 it doesn't hurt/never hurts to do sth
 it wouldn't hurt you to do sth

both /bəʊθ/
- (referring to) two people or things together: 
    Both my parents are teachers.
    They have two children, both of whom live abroad.
    She has written two novels, both of which have been made into television series.
    Both Mike and Jim have red hair/Mike and Jim both have red hair.
    I loved them both/I loved both of them.
    The problem with both of these proposals is that they are hopelessly impractical.
    Are both of us invited, or just you?
    Would you like milk or sugar or both?
    Both men and women have complained about the advertisement.
    I felt both happy and sad at the same time.
    I think it's important to listen to both sides of the argument.
    Improved childcare facilities would benefit both sexes, not just women.
    I failed my driving test because I didn't keep both hands on the steering wheel.

while /waɪl/
- during the time that, or at the same time as: 
    I read it while you were drying your hair.
    While I was in Italy I went to see Alessandro.
    I thought I heard him come in while we were having dinner.
    "I'm going to the post office." "While you're there can you get me some stamps?"
- despite the fact that; although: 
    While I accept that he's not perfect in many respects, I do actually like the man.
    While I fully understand your point of view, I also have some sympathy with Michael's.
- compared with the fact that; but: 
    He gets £50,000 a year while I get a meagre £20,000!
    Tom is very extrovert and confident while Katy's shy and quiet.
    I do all the housework while he just does the dishes now and again.
- a length of time: 
    I only stayed for a short while.
    You were there quite a while (= a long time), weren't you?
    "When did that happen?" "Oh, it was a while ago (= a long time ago).
    I haven't seen him for a while (= for a long time).
    I'll be fine in a while (= soon).
idioms:
 all the while

dead /ded/
- not now living: 
    She's been dead for 20 years now.
    The motorcyclist was dead on arrival at the hospital.
    He was shot dead (= killed by shooting) outside his home.
- If a part of your body is dead, you cannot feel it: 
    I've been sitting with my legs crossed for so long, my right leg has gone dead.
- If glasses and bottles that were previously full are dead, they are now empty.
- In some sports, if a ball is dead, it is outside the area of play.
- If a place is dead, it is too quiet and nothing interesting happens there: 
    The city centre is quite lively during the day, but it's totally dead at night.
- If a piece of equipment is dead, it is not working: 
    a dead battery
    The phone suddenly went dead.
- very tired: 
    I'm absolutely dead by the end of the day.
- complete(ly): 
    The conductor waited for dead silence before commencing the performance.
    The post office is dead (= straight) ahead.
    Aim for the dead (= exact) centre of the target.
    I always try to arrive dead (= exactly) on time.
- very: 
    The exam was dead easy.
    I'm dead hungry.
    "How was the film?" "It was dead good."
- to be completely opposed to something: 
    He's dead set against living in the city.
    You won't be able to change his mind - he's dead against the plan.
- to be very determined to do or have something: 
    Martha's dead set on having a new bike.
- dead people: 
    Three children were among the dead.
    A ceasefire has been called to allow the survivors to bury their dead.
idioms:
 be (as) dead as a/the dodo
 be as dead as a doornail
 be dead meat
 be dead in the water
 be dead on your feet
 dead to rights
 be dead to the world
 dead men tell no tales
 over my dead body
 come back from the dead
 in the dead of night/winter

alone /əˈləʊn/
- without other people: 
    He likes being alone in the house.
    She decided to climb the mountain alone.
    Do you like living alone?
    At last, we're alone together (= there are just the two of us here).
    The Swedes are not alone in finding their language under pressure from the spread of English.
    I don't like the man and I'm not alone in that (= other people agree).
- without any others: 
    She alone needs to decide what to do (= no one else can do it for her).
    These facts alone (= even if nothing else is considered) show that he's not to be trusted.
    He won't get the job through charm alone (= he will need something else).
    The airfare alone would use up all my money, never mind the hotel bills.
    Price alone is not a reliable indicator of quality.

since /sɪns/
- from a particular time in the past until a later time, or until now: 
    Emma went to work in New York a year ago, and we haven't seen her since.
    He started working for the company in 1995, and has been there ever since (= and is still there).
    I've long since (= long ago) forgotten any Latin I ever learned.
- from a particular time in the past until a later time, or until now: 
    He hasn't won a game since last year. 
    It was the hottest October since records began.
- because; as: 
    Since we've got a few minutes to wait for the train, let's have a cup of coffee.
- from a particular time in the past until a later time, or until now: 
    I've been very busy since I came back from holiday.

excuse /ɪkˈskjuːz/
- to forgive someone: 
    Please excuse me for arriving late - the bus was delayed.
    Nothing can excuse that sort of behaviour.
    No amount of financial recompense can excuse the way in which the company carried out its policy.
    We cannot excuse him for these crimes.
    I asked the teacher if I could be excused from (= allowed not to do) hockey practice as my knee still hurt.
    Please excuse me from (= allow me to miss) the rest of the meeting - I've just received a phone call that requires my immediate attention.
- a polite way of attracting someone's attention, especially of someone you do not know: 
    Excuse me, does this bus go to Oxford Street?
- used to politely ask someone to move so that you can walk past them: 
    Excuse me, can I just get past?
- used to tell someone politely that you are leaving: 
    Excuse me a moment, I'll be with you shortly.
- used to say sorry for something you have done by accident: 
    Did I take your seat? Do excuse me.
- said before disagreeing with someone: 
    Excuse me but aren't you forgetting something?
- used to politely ask someone to repeat something they have said because you have not heard it
- a reason that you give to explain why you did something wrong: 
    He'd better have a good excuse for being late.
    I've never known him to miss a meeting - I'm sure he'll have an excuse.
    There's no excuse for that sort of behaviour.
- a false reason that you give to explain why you do something: 
    She was just looking for an excuse to call him.
    Any excuse for a holiday!
- to explain why you cannot be present somewhere: 
    Please make my excuses at the meeting on Friday.
- to give false reasons why you cannot do something: 
    You're always making excuses for not helping me.
idioms:
 a miserable, poor, etc. excuse for sth

start /stɑːt/
- to begin doing something: 
    When do you start your course/your new job?
    We'll be starting (the session) at six o'clock.
    Can you start (= begin a new job) on Monday?
    They started building the house in January.
    I'd just started to write a letter when the phone rang.
- If a business or other organization starts, or if someone starts one, it is created and starts to operate: 
    She started her own software company.
    A lot of new restaurants have started up in the region.
- to begin to happen or to make something begin to happen: 
    A new series about wildlife has started on Monday nights.
    Police believe the fire was started by arsonists.
- to begin a set of activities with the thing or person mentioned: 
    The speaker started with a description of her journey to China.
    Give me your answers one by one, starting with Lucy.
    You could start by weeding the flowerbeds.
    He started his working life as an engineer but later became a teacher.
- to begin to complain or be annoying in some way: 
    Don't start with me - we're not going and that's that!
    "It would help if Richard did some work." "Oh, don't get me started on Richard!"
- to begin: 
    When can we get started?
- to have your first child
- to begin an argument or a fight: 
    You could tell the guy wanted to start something, so we just walked away.
- to begin being employed: 
    He started work at 16 in a bakery.
- at the beginning, or as the first of several things: 
    We only knew two people in Montreal to start with, but we soon made friends.
    To start with, we need better computers - then we need more training.
- to begin at one point and then move to another, in distance or range: 
    The run starts at/from the entrance to the park.
    We'll need to start (off/out) early because the journey takes six hours.
    Tell me what happened - start at the beginning.
    Ticket prices start at/from €80 and go up to €500.
- to move your body suddenly because something has surprised or frightened you: 
    He started at the sound of the phone.
- to (cause to) begin to work or operate: 
    I'm having trouble starting the car.
    The engine won't start.
- the beginning of something: 
    We were doubtful about the product's usefulness from the start.
    They announced the start of a new commercial venture.
    The weather was good at the start (= in the first part) of the week.
    The event got off to a shaky/poor start with the stage lights failing in the first few minutes.
- the act of beginning to do something: 
    We need to make a start on (preparing) the brochure next week.
- including all of something, from the beginning to the end: 
    The whole party was a disaster from start to finish.
- first, or as the first in a set of things: 
    We'll take names and phone numbers for a start, then later on we can get more details.
- used when giving a first example of something: 
    This book is better than her last one. For a start, it's shorter.
- an advantage that you have over someone else when you begin something: 
    We gave the youngest children a five-second start (= in a race).
- a sudden movement of the body that you make when something has surprised or frightened you: 
    He woke with a start.
    She gave a start as I entered.
phrasal verbs:
 start (sth) off
 start sb off
 start on sth
 start on at sb
 start out
 start over
 start (sth) up

kill /kɪl/
- to cause someone or something to die: 
    Her parents were killed in a plane crash.
    Smoking can kill.
    Food must be heated to a high temperature to kill harmful bacteria.
- to stop or destroy a relationship, activity, or experience: 
    Lack of romance can kill a marriage.
    They gave her some tablets to kill the pain.
    Kill your speed.
- to drink all of something: 
    We killed off two six-packs watching the game.
- to cause someone a lot of effort or difficulty: 
    It wouldn't kill you to apologize.
    He didn't exactly kill himself trying to get the work finished.
- to cause someone a lot of pain: 
    I must sit down, my feet are killing me!
- If you say that someone will kill you, you mean that they will be very angry with you: 
    My sister would kill me if she heard me say that.
- to make someone laugh a lot: 
    That comedian kills me.
- to laugh very much: 
    We were killing ourselves laughing.
- an animal or bird that has been hunted and killed, or the action of killing: 
    The leopard seizes its kill and begins to eat.
    Like other birds of prey, it quickly moves in for the kill.
idioms:
 kill sb with kindness
 kill the fatted calf
 kill the goose that lays the golden egg
 kill it
 kill time, an hour, etc.
 kill two birds with one stone
 be in at the kill
 kill or cure
 move/go in for the kill
phrasal verbs:
 kill sth off

hard /hɑːd/
- not easy to bend, cut, or break: 
    a hard surface
    There was a heavy frost last night and the ground is still hard.
    Heating the clay makes it hard.
- difficult to understand, do, experience, or deal with: 
    There were some really hard questions in the exam.
    It's hard to say which of them is lying.
    It's hard being a single mother.
    Her handwriting is very hard to read.
    He's a hard man to please.
    The topics get harder later in the course.
    I feel sorry for the kids, too - they've had a hard time.
- needing or using a lot of physical or mental effort: 
    Go on - give it a good hard push!
    It was hard work on the farm but satisfying.
- not pleasant or gentle; severe: 
    You have to be quite hard to succeed in the property business.
    Ooh, you're a hard woman, Elaine!
    Our boss has been giving us all a hard time at work (= making our time at work difficult).
    Life can be hard at times for these nomadic people.
- to criticize someone severely, or to treat someone unfairly: 
    Don't be too hard on him - he's new to the job.
- A hard drink contains a high level of alcohol: 
    hard liquor
- Hard water contains a high level of minerals that prevent soap from cleaning.
- able to be proved: 
    hard facts/evidence
- used to describe a time when there is bad weather: 
    We had a very hard winter last year.
- with a lot of physical or mental effort: 
    Work hard and play hard, that's my motto.
    I'm not surprised he failed his exam - he didn't exactly try very hard!
- If it rains or snows hard, it rains or snows a lot: 
    It had been raining hard most of the afternoon.
idioms:
 be no hard and fast rules
 hard feelings
 hard luck!
 (that's) your hard luck
 hard to swallow
 the hard way
 take a hard line on sb/sth
 feel hard done-by
 hard at it

today /təˈdeɪ/
- (on) the present day: 
    What's the date today?
    He's going to call you at some point today.
    Today is even hotter than yesterday!
    Is that today's paper?
    He should be back today a week today (= one week from today).
- used more generally to mean the present time: 
    Today, people are much more concerned about their health than they were in the past.
    With today's technology almost anything seems possible.
    The youth of today don't know how lucky they are.
idioms:
 today North America, tomorrow the world

car /kɑːr/
- a road vehicle with an engine, four wheels, and seats for a small number of people: 
    They don't have a car.
    Where did you park your car?
    It's quicker by car.
    a car chase/accident/factory
- a part of a train used for a special purpose: 
    a restaurant/sleeping car
- any of the separate parts of a train in which the passengers sit: 
    a railroad car
- a part of a train that is used for carrying goods or animals: 
    Hundreds of refugees were herded into cattle cars for the gruelling ten-hour journey.

ready /ˈred.i/
- prepared and suitable for fast activity: 
    Are you ready to leave?
    Are you ready to order, Madam?
    Okay, Evie, ready when you are (= I am ready to do what we have arranged).
    Dinner's ready!
    Are you ready? Hurry up - we're late.
    We're leaving at eight o'clock, so you've got half an hour to get ready.
    The army are said to be ready for action.
    The concert hall was made/got ready (= prepared) for the performance.
- waiting and prepared to act: 
    Secret information allowed the police to be ready and waiting when the robbers came out of the bank.
- quick with answers, jokes, solutions, etc.: 
    He had a ready reply to every question.
    He was charming, with a ready wit (= the ability to quickly say clever and funny things).
- prepared to be used or to act immediately: 
    He stood by the phone, pencil at the ready.
idioms:
 be ready to do sth
 be ready to roll
 ready to hand
 ready, steady, go!

until /ənˈtɪl/
- up to (the time that): 
    I was up until three o'clock trying to get it finished!
    Shouldn't we wait until Antony's here?
- not before a particular time or event: 
    We didn't eat till past midnight.
    Once he starts painting a room he won't stop until it's done.
- as far as: 
    You should stay on the train until Manchester and then change.

without /wɪˈðaʊt/
- not having or doing something, or lacking something: 
    I left without my umbrella.
    You look nice without make-up.
    He went without my knowledge.
    I couldn't have done it without you.
    She's strong without being bossy.
    Do start without me.
    He's not without (= he does have some) good qualities.
    This is without a doubt (= certainly) the best Chinese food I've ever had.
    You shouldn't drive for more than three hours without taking a break.
    Without wanting to be rude (= I don't want to be rude, but), don't you think you need a haircut?

whatever /wɒtˈev.ər/
- it is not important what is; it makes no difference what (is): 
    We'll go whatever the weather.
    Whatever happens, you know that I'll stand by you.
    Whatever else may be said of him, Mr Meese is not scared of a fight.
    Whatever the outcome of the war, there will be no winners.
    Whatever the reason, more people are emigrating to Australia today than at any time since the 1950s.
- anything or everything: 
    I eat whatever I want and I still don't seem to put on weight.
    "What can we do tonight?" "It's up to you - whatever you want."
    Whatever I say I always seem to get it wrong.
    Don't, whatever you do, tell Patrick (= you certainly should not tell him).
    Do whatever you want - it won't affect me.
    "So, I'll bring red wine." "Sure, whatever (= bring that or anything else)."
    Apparently he "discovered himself" in India, whatever that means (= I do not know what that means).
- used instead of the word "what" to add emphasis to a phrase, usually expressing surprise: 
    Whatever is he doing with that rod?
    Whatever's that yellow thing on your plate?
    Whatever did you say that for?
    Whatever does she see in him - he's horrible!
    Whatever made him buy that jacket?
- → 
whatsoever : 
    There is no evidence whatever to show that this is in fact the case.
- something that is said to show no respect to someone who is asking you to agree with them or agree to do something: 
    "Bryce, could you do what I ask you to once in a while?" "Whatever."

deal /diːl/
- an agreement or an arrangement, especially in business: 
    a business deal
    The unions and management have made a two-year pay and productivity deal.
    I'll make/do a deal with you - you wash the car and I'll let you use it tonight.
    She got a good deal (= paid a low price) on her new house.
    Is industry getting a raw/rough deal from (= being unfairly/badly treated by) the EU?
- a large amount: 
    She spends a good deal of her time in China.
    A great deal of effort has gone into making the software reliable.
    They still need a great deal more money to finish the project.
- the act of dealing (= sharing out) something, especially playing cards: 
    It's your deal (= turn to deal).
- the pale, soft wood of a pine or fir tree (= types of tree that do not lose their leaves), used for making furniture, etc.: 
    The book cases were made of deal.
    a deal table
- to do business: 
    We only deal with companies which have a good credit record.
    How long had she been dealing (= selling drugs) before she was arrested?
    He was suspected of dealing (= selling) cocaine.
- to give or share out something, especially playing cards: 
    Whose turn is it to deal?
    Would you like to deal (out) the cards?
    Deal them five cards each./Deal five cards to each of them.
    We have only a small amount of food and clothing to deal out to each refugee.
- to cause someone or something, usually a plan or hope, to fail or to be affected very badly: 
    The latest trade figures have dealt a severe blow to hopes of an early economic recovery.
phrasal verbs:
 deal in sth
 deal with sb
 deal with sth

took /tʊk/
- past simple of
take 

once /wʌns/
- one single time: 
    I went sailing once, but I didn't like it.
    We have lunch together once a month.
- at the same time: 
    They all started talking at once.
- used when something happens that does not usually happen: 
    For once, the bus came on time.
- used to say that you will only do or request something on this particular occasion: 
    All right, I'll lend you the money - just this once.
- again, as has happened before: 
    Once again, racist attacks are increasing across Europe.
- one more time: 
    I'd like to visit the campus once more before we leave.
- again, as has happened before: 
    When my father came home, everything felt right once more.
- a few times: 
    I've seen him once or twice in town.
- sometimes but not often: 
    We meet for lunch once in a while.
- completely and in a way that will finally solve a problem: 
    Our intention is to destroy their offensive capability once and for all.
- only likely to happen once in a person's life: 
    An opportunity as good as this arises once in a lifetime.
- on a single occasion: 
    I've only played rugby the once, and I never want to play it again.
- in the past, but not now: 
    This house once belonged to my grandfather.
    Computers are much cheaper nowadays than they once were.
    Once-thriving villages stand deserted and in ruins.
- as soon as, or from the moment when: 
    Once I've found somewhere to live I'll send you my address.
    Remember that you won't be able to cancel the contract once you've signed.
- immediately: 
    I knew at once that I'd like it here.
idioms:
 all at once
 once bitten, twice shy
 once upon a time

friend /frend/
- a person who you know well and who you like a lot, but who is usually not a member of your family: 
    She's my best/oldest/closest friend - we've known each other since we were five.
    He's a family friend/friend of the family.
    This restaurant was recommended to me by a friend of mine.
    We've been friends for years.
    José and Pilar are (good) friends of ours.
    We're (good) friends with José and Pilar.
    She said that she and Peter were just (good) friends (= they were not having a sexual relationship).
    I've made a lot of friends in this job.
    He finds it difficult to make friends.
- someone who is not an enemy and who you can trust: 
    You don't have to pretend any more - you're among friends now.
- someone who gives money to an arts organization or charity in order to support it: 
    The Friends of the Royal Academy raised £10,000 towards the cost of the exhibition.
- to invite someone to be your friend on a social networking website: 
    I friended her and sent her a message.
- a 
Quaker 
idioms:
 a friend in need is a friend indeed
 have friends in high places
 what are friends for?
 with friends like you, who needs enemies?

head /hed/
- the part of the body above the neck where the eyes, nose, mouth, ears, and brain are: 
    Put this hat on to keep your head warm.
    He banged his head on the car as he was getting in.
    She nodded/shook her head (= showed her agreement/disagreement).
- a person or animal when considered as a unit: 
    Dinner will cost £20 a/per head (= for each person).
    I did a quick head count (= calculated how many people there were).
    They own a hundred head of cattle (= 100 animals).
- a measure of length or height equal to the size of a head: 
    Her horse won by a head.
    Paul is a head taller than Andrew.
- the mind and mental abilities: 
    You need a clear head to be able to drive safely.
    What put that (idea) into your head? (= What made you think that?)
    I can't get that tune/that man out of my head (= I cannot stop hearing the tune in my mind/thinking about that man).
    Use your head (= think more carefully)!
    Harriet has a (good) head for figures (= she is very good at calculating numbers).
    Do you have a head for heights (= are you able to be in high places without fear)?
- someone in charge of or leading an organization, group, etc.: 
    the head of the History department
    the head chef
    his first season as head coach
- a 
headteacher UK 
- a boy or girl who often represents his or her school on formal occasions
- the top part or beginning of something: 
    the head of the queue
    the head of the page
    Diana, the guest of honour, sat at the head of the table (= the most important end of it).
- the larger end of a nail, hammer, etc.
- the top part of a plant where a flower or leaves grow: 
    a head of lettuce
- the layer of white bubbles on top of beer after it has been poured
- the upper part of a river, where it begins
- the top part of a spot when it contains pus (= yellow liquid)
- the side of a coin that has a picture of someone's head on it
- the part of a tape or video recorder (= machine for recording sound or pictures) that touches the tape to record and play music, speech, etc.
- the main part of the phrase, to which the other parts are related
- a narrow area of high land that sticks out into the sea: 
    the chalk cliffs around Beachy Head
- to go in a particular direction: 
    I was heading out of the room when she called me back.
    We were heading towards Kumasi when our truck broke down.
    He headed straight for (= went towards) the fridge.
    I think we ought to head back/home (= return to where we started) now, before it gets too dark.
- to be in charge of a group or organization: 
    She heads one of Britain's leading travel firms.
    Judge Hawthorne was chosen to head the team investigating the allegations of abuse.
- to be at the front or top of something: 
    The royal carriage headed the procession.
    Jo's name headed the list of candidates.
- to hit a ball with your head: 
    Rooney headed the ball into the back of the net.
- a person with a particular strong interest or addiction: 
    a crack-head (= someone who depends on the drug crack)
idioms:
 a head of steam
 an old/a wise head on young shoulders
 be banging, etc. your head against a brick wall
 be in over your head
 be off your head
 bite/snap sb's head off
 bury/have your head in the sand
 can't get your head around sth
 can't make head nor tail of sth
 come to a head
 do sb's head in
 from head to toe
 a full, good, thick, etc. head of hair
 get it into your thick head
 get your head down
 get sth into your head
 get/put your head down
 give head
 give sb their head
 give sb a heads up
 go over sb's head
 go to sb's head
 have your business, sensible, etc. head on
 have your head (buried/stuck) in a book
 have your head in the clouds
 have your head screwed on (the right way)
 head and shoulders above
 head first
 head over heels (in love)
 heads I win, tails you lose
 heads or tails?
 heads will roll!
 keep your head
 keep your head above water
 keep your head down
 laugh, shout, scream, etc. your head off
 over your head
 put their heads together
 take it into your head to do sth
phrasal verbs:
 head for sth
 head off
 head sb/sth off
 head sth off
 head sth up

stuff /stʌf/
- a substance, especially when you do not know or say exactly what it is: 
    There's sticky stuff all over the chair.
    What's this black stuff?
    He drinks gallons of tea - he loves the stuff.
- things that someone says or does, when you are referring to them in a general way without saying exactly what they are: 
    All that stuff she has been saying about Lee is just not true.
    We did some really interesting stuff today.
    I have to go now - I've got stuff to do.
    I've read all her books - I really like her stuff.
- someone's possessions or things that they take somewhere with them: 
    We'll have to carry all our camping stuff.
    Do you want help bringing your stuff in from the van?
    We can't move to a smaller place - we've got too much stuff.
- used to refer to more things of a similar kind to ones you have mentioned, when you do not say exactly what they are: 
    This is the drawer where I keep paper and envelopes and stuff.
    The classrooms all have computers and interactive whiteboards and stuff.
    I was embarrassed because he wanted to talk about love and stuff.
- someone's skill or great abilities: 
    Avery had great stuff, total command of all three of his pitches.
    An interview is a chance to show your stuff.
- to completely fill a container with something: 
    Stuff the pillow and then sew up the final seam.
    Under her bed, they found a bag stuffed with money.
- to push something into a small space, often quickly or in a careless way: 
    This suitcase is absolutely full - I can't stuff another thing into it.
- to fill the body of a dead animal with special material so that it looks as if it is still alive
- (of a man) to have sex with a woman
- to fill food with stuffing: 
    Stuff the turkey, then put it into a pre-heated oven.
- to eat a lot: 
    They'd been stuffing themselves with snacks all afternoon, so they didn't want any dinner.
idioms:
 do your stuff
 good/great/lovely stuff!
 stuff and nonsense
 the stuff of sth
 get stuffed!
 stuff it, them, you, etc.
 stuff your face

most /məʊst/
- the biggest number or amount of; more than anything or anyone else: 
    What's the most you've ever won at poker?
    Which of you earns the most money?
    He wanted to do the most good he could with the $2,000, so he gave it to charity.
    The kids loved the fair, but they enjoyed the bumper cars most of all.
- used to form the superlative of many adjectives and adverbs: 
    Joanne is the most intelligent person I know.
    The department needs three more computers in order to work most effectively (= to work as effectively as possible).
- almost all: 
    I don't eat meat, but I like most types of fish.
    In this school, most of the children are from the Chinese community.
- very: 
    It was a most beautiful morning.
- almost: 
    You'll find her in the bar most every evening about six o'clock.
- used when saying what is the largest possible amount or number: 
    At most, the work will take a week.
    It should cost around $20, or $30 at the most.
- to take full advantage of something because it may not last long: 
    It's a beautiful day - we should make the most of it.
- used to mean 'furthest': 
    Dunnet Head is the northernmost part of the British mainland (= the part that is farther to the north than any other part).

worry /ˈwʌr.i/
- to think about problems or unpleasant things that might happen in a way that makes you feel unhappy and frightened: 
    Try not to worry - there's nothing you can do to change the situation.
    Don't worry, she'll be all right.
    It's silly worrying about things which are outside your control.
    She's worried (that) she might not be able to find another job.
- to make someone feel unhappy and frightened because of problems or unpleasant things that might happen: 
    You worried your mother by not writing.
    It worries me that he hasn't phoned yet.
    The continued lack of rain is starting to worry people.
- If a dog worries another animal, it chases and frightens it and might also bite it: 
    Any dog caught worrying sheep in these fields will be shot.
- a problem that makes you feel unhappy and frightened: 
    health/financial worries
    Keeping warm in the winter is a major worry for many old people.
- a feeling of being unhappy and frightened about something: 
    Unemployment, bad health - all sorts of things can be a cause of worry.
    It was clear that Anna had no worries about her husband's attempts to flirt.
- used to tell someone that a situation is acceptable, even if something has gone wrong: 
    "Oh, I'm sorry I got your name wrong!" "No worries".
idioms:
 don't worry your pretty little head
 not to worry
phrasal verbs:
 worry at sth

second /ˈsek.ənd/
- immediately after the first and before any others: 
    Is Carla her first or second child?
    This is the second time I've had flu this winter.
    Today is the second (of March).
- the position in which a person finishes a race or competition if they finish immediately behind the winner: 
    First prize is two weeks in Barbados and second prize is a weekend in Rome.
    Jones took second place in the long jump.
- Second is used to show that only one thing is better, bigger, etc. than the thing mentioned: 
    St Petersburg is Russia's second (biggest/largest) city.
    Iraq's oil reserves are second only to Saudi Arabia's.
- another: 
    She is often described as a second Marilyn Monroe.
    You really should make the most of the opportunity, because you won't get a second chance.
    Richard and Liz have a second home in the mountains.
    Pay attention to what she's saying because she won't explain it a second time.
- happening only once out of every two possible times: 
    We've decided to hold the conference every second year.
- after the first and before any others: 
    Robertson won the race and Cameron was/came/finished second.
    In this business, money comes first and principles come a very poor second (= they are much less important).
- used to introduce the second thing in a list of things you want to say or write: 
    There are two good reasons why we can't do it. First, we can't afford it, and second, we don't have time.
- a short unit of time that is equal to a 60th of a minute: 
    There are 60 seconds in a minute.
    These computers process millions of instructions per second.
    The new system can trace a phone call in a fraction of a second.
- a very short period of time: 
    "Come on, hurry up!" "I'll just/only be a second - I need to close the window."
    Do you have a second, Paul? I need to talk to you.
    It won't take a second (= it will be very quick).
    Wait a couple of/a few seconds before trying again.
- as soon as : 
    The second I saw him, I knew he was going to be a star.
- the second person or thing to do or be something, or the second person or thing mentioned: 
    This is the second of the four tests.
- an extra amount of food that is given after the first amount has been eaten: 
    Would anyone like seconds of ice cream?
- the smallest unit used for measuring an angle: 
    There are 3,600 seconds in a degree.
- a product that is sold cheaply because it is damaged or not in perfect condition
- a person who takes care of someone who is fighting in a boxing competition or, in the past, in a duel (= organized fight)
- in a vehicle, the gear that combines power with limited speed and is used when increasing or reducing speed: 
    You'll have to change (down/up) into second.
- an undergraduate degree from a university in the UK and some other countries that is a good degree but not the best possible
- → 
second base 
- to make a formal statement of support for a suggestion made by someone else during a meeting so that there can be a discussion or vote: 
    The motion was proposed by the club's chairwoman and seconded by the secretary.
    "I could use a drink." "I'll second that (= I agree with you)!"
- to send an employee to work somewhere else temporarily, either to increase the number of workers or to replace other workers, or to exchange experience or skills: 
    During the dispute, many police officers were seconded from traffic duty to the prison service.
idioms:
 second best
 second to none

part /pɑːt/
- some but not all of a thing: 
    Part of my steak isn't cooked properly.
    Part of this form seems to be missing.
    I think part of her problem is that she doesn't listen carefully enough to what other people say.
- partly, or to some degree: 
    The deadline for applications is being extended, in part because of the postal strike.
- to an important degree: 
    How quickly we can finish the project depends in (a) large part on when we get the payments through.
- mostly or usually: 
    He was, for the most part, quite helpful.
- a separate piece of something, or a piece that combines with other pieces to form the whole of something: 
    We learned about all the different parts of the digestive system.
    The lower part of her spine was crushed in the accident.
    I think there's always a part of you that doubts what you're doing.
    Fresh fruit and vegetables form an essential/important part of a healthy diet.
    There'll be snow in parts (= particular areas) of the Midlands tonight.
- one of the pieces that together form a machine or some type of equipment: 
    He works for a company that makes aircraft parts.
- a single broadcast of a series of television or radio programmes or a division of a story: 
    Next week we publish part three of the president's diaries.
    The programme will be shown in two parts.
- one of two or more equal, or almost equal, measures of something: 
    Mix one part of the medicine with three parts water.
- one of the characters in a film, play, or dance, or the words, actions, or movements that are said or done by that character: 
    He has a small part in the school play.
    She plays the part of the sexy blonde waitress.
- the music that a particular musician plays in a group
- used to refer to an area of the country: 
    We don't see many foreigners in these parts.
- to be involved in an activity with other people: 
    She doesn't usually take part in any of the class activities.
- involvement in or responsibility for an activity, or action: 
    He admitted his part in the robbery.
    I want no part in/of your crazy plans!
- a line on someone's head made by brushing the hair in two different directions: 
    a centre/side part
- to separate or cause something or someone to separate: 
    The curtains parted, revealing a darkened stage.
    To be parted from him even for two days made her sad.
- If you part your hair, you arrange it so that it falls on either side of your head by separating it with a line down the middle or on one side.
- If two people part, they leave each other, often at the end of a relationship: 
    I'm afraid we parted on very bad terms.
- partly: 
    He's part African - his father was born in Somalia.
    The exam is part spoken and part written.
- not total or complete: 
    He's (a) part owner of a racehorse.
    Part payment is better than no payment.
idioms:
 be part and parcel of sth
 the best/better part of
 dress/look/act the part
 on the part of sb/on sb's part
 part of the furniture
 take sb's part
 part company
phrasal verbs:
 part with sth

truth /truːθ/
- the quality of being true: 
    There would seem to be some truth in what she says.
    There is no truth in the reports of his resignation.
    You cannot question the truth of his alibi.
    And yet what he says contains at least a grain of (= a small amount of) truth.
- the real facts about a situation, event, or person: 
    But was he telling the truth?
    I don't suppose we'll ever know the truth about what happened that day.
    To tell (you) the truth (= speaking honestly) I'm happy he's not coming.
- used to show or emphasize that something is true: 
    In truth we feared for her safety, although we didn't let it be known.
- a fact or principle that is thought to be true by most people: 
    It would seem to be a general truth that nothing is as straightforward as it at first seems.
    The entire system of belief is based on a few simple truths.
idioms:
 truth is stranger than fiction
 truth will out

school /skuːl/
- a place where children go to be educated: 
    a primary/secondary school
    an elementary/a middle/a high school
    Milton Road School
    They're building a new school in the town.
    She drives the kids to school every morning.
    I went to school with (= I went to the same school at the same time as) Luke's brother.
    I was at school with Luke's brother.
    Is Emily in/at school today or is she still ill?
    What did you learn at school today
    Which school do you go to (formal attend)?
    school lunches/uniform/buildings
- the period of your life during which you go to school, or the teaching and learning activities which happen at school: 
    Most children start/begin school at the age of five.
    What do you want to do when you leave school (= finish studying at school)?
    I love/hate school.
    My sister teaches school (= teaches children in a school) in New York City.
- the time during the day when children are studying in school: 
    before/after school
    School starts at 9 a.m. and finishes at 3.30 p.m. 
- all the children and teachers at a school: 
    The whole school is/are delighted about Joel's success in the championships.
- a part of a college or university specializing in a particular subject or group of subjects: 
    the School of Oriental and African Studies
    She went to medical school in Edinburgh.
- a place where people can study a particular subject either some of the time or all of the time: 
    a driving/dancing school
    the London Business School
- a college or university or the time that a student spends there: 
    We first met in graduate school (= while doing a second or third university degree).
    We went to school together in Atlanta.
- a group of painters, writers, poets, etc. whose work is similar, especially similar to that of a particular leader: 
    the Flemish School
    the Impressionist school of painting
- a large number of fish or other sea creatures swimming in a group: 
    a school of dolphins/whales
- to train a person or animal to do something: 
    It takes a lot of patience to school a dog/horse.
    You must school yourself to be tolerant.
- to teach a child: 
    Her children are well schooled in correct behaviour.
idioms:
 school of hard knocks

face /feɪs/
- the front of the head, where the eyes, nose, and mouth are: 
    She has a long, thin face.
    She had a puzzled expression on her face.
- an expression on someone's face: 
    I was greeted by smiling faces.
    I could see from his face he was unhappy.
- to make a strange expression with your face, for example to show that you do not like someone or something: 
    I was making silly faces to get the baby to laugh.
    "This tastes horrible," said Tom, pulling a face at his glass.
- the front or surface of an object: 
    the north face of a mountain
    the west face of the building
- the front of a clock or watch that has the numbers or marks that show what time it is: 
    a watch face with Roman numerals
- the respect and honour of others: 
    He thinks he would lose face if he admitted the mistake.
    She tried to save face by inventing a story about being overseas at the time.
- If you face a problem, or a problem faces you, you have to deal with it: 
    This is one of the many problems faced by working mothers.
    Passengers could face long delays.
    You're faced with a very difficult choice there.
- to accept that something unpleasant is true and start to deal with the situation: 
    I think Phil has to face the fact that she no longer loves him.
    We have to face facts here - we simply don't have enough money.
    He's dying but he refuses to face the truth.
- to not want to do or deal with something unpleasant: 
    I can't face walking up all those steps again.
    I know I've got to tell her but I can't face it.
- to deal with someone when the situation between you is difficult: 
    She half hoped he would not find her, though she knew she would have to face him sooner or later.
- to turn or be turned towards something physically; to be opposite something: 
    The balcony faced towards the sea.
    Our apartment faces south.
    Their houses face each other across the street.
- If you face a building, you put an extra layer in front of what is already there: 
    The house was built of wood but faced in/with brick.
idioms:
 be in sb's face
 in your face
 disappear off the face of the earth
 keep a straight face
 sb's face doesn't fit
 sb's face falls
 the face of sth
 get out of my face!
 have a face like the back end of a bus
 in the face of sth
 on the face of it
 to sb's face
 face the music
 let's face it
phrasal verbs:
 face up to sth

forget /fəˈɡet/
forget | present participle forgetting | past tense forgot | past participle forgotten
- to be unable to remember a fact, something that happened, or how to do something: 
    I'm sorry, I've forgotten your name.
    Let me write down that date before I forget it.
    I completely forgot about Jenny's party.
    We had forgotten (that) she doesn't come on Thursdays.
    I'm sorry, I was forgetting (= I had forgotten) (that) you would be away in August.
    She would never forget seeing the Himalayas for the first time.
    I've forgotten what you do next/how to do it.
    I never forget a face (= I'm good at remembering people).
- including: 
    This is where we keep all the books, not forgetting the magazines and newspapers.
- to not remember to do something: 
    Don't forget to lock the door.
    Dad's always forgetting (to take) his pills.
- to not bring something with you because you did not remember it: 
    I forgot my keys.
- to stop thinking about someone or something: 
    He tried to forget her.
    It seemed unlikely that the debt would ever be paid off so we just forgot (about) it.
- to act in a socially unacceptable way because you have lost control of your emotions: 
    He was so angry he forgot himself and swore loudly.
idioms:
 and don't you forget it
 forget it

business /ˈbɪz.nɪs/
- the activity of buying and selling goods and services: 
    My brother's in business.
    He's in the frozen food business.
    Our firm does a lot of business with overseas customers.
    Eventually they found a consultant they felt they could do business with (= with whom they could work well).
    Currently, there are fewer firms in business (= operating) in the area than ever before.
    This new tax will put a lot of small firms out of business (= they will stop operating).
    She set up in business (= started her own company) as a management consultant.
- a particular company that buys and sells goods and services: 
    The two brothers established/set up/started up a clothes retailing business.
    She runs her own printing business.
    They put a lot of money into the family business.
- work that you do to earn money: 
    I'm in Baltimore on business.
    a business appointment
- the amount of work done or the number of goods or services sold by a company or organization: 
    Business is good/brisk/booming/flourishing (= I'm selling a lot).
    Business is bad/slack/quiet (= I'm not selling much).
    How is business (= are you selling much) at the moment?
- a situation or activity, often one that you are giving your opinion about: 
    Arranging a trip abroad is a time-consuming business.
    These killings are a horrible business.
    I make it my business (= I feel it is my particular duty) to check the monthly accounts.
    We have some unfinished business to discuss (= we still have something important to discuss).
- the things that you do or the matters that relate only to you: 
    I started on the business of filling out the form.
    What she does with her life is her business.
idioms:
 be in business
 be none of sb's business
 be the business
 (it's) business as usual
 business before pleasure
 do the business
 get down to business
 have no business doing sth
 like nobody's business
 not be in the business of sth
 what a business!

each /iːtʃ/
- every thing, person, etc. in a group of two or more, considered separately: 
    When you run, each foot leaves the ground before the other comes down.
    There are five leaflets - please take one of each.
    Each of the companies supports a local charity.
    Each and every one of the flowers has its own colour and smell.
    We each (= every one of us) wanted the bedroom with the balcony, so we tossed a coin to decide.
    The bill comes to £79, so that's about £10 each.
- used to say that everyone likes different things: 
    You actually like modern jazz, do you? Each to their own.
- If you put an amount of money each way on a horse race, you will win money if the horse you have chosen comes first, second, or third.

cause /kɔːz/
- the reason why something, especially something bad, happens: 
    The police are still trying to establish the cause of the fire.
    She had died of natural causes.
    I wouldn't tell you without (good) cause (= if there was not a (good) reason).
    I believe we have/there is just cause (= a fair reason) for taking this action.
- a reason to feel something or to behave in a particular way: 
    He's never given me any cause for concern.
- a socially valuable principle that is strongly supported by some people: 
    They are fighting for a cause - the liberation of their people.
    I'll sponsor you for £10 - it's all in a good cause.
- to make something happen, especially something bad: 
    The difficult driving conditions caused several accidents.
    The bright light caused her to blink.
    Most heart attacks are caused by blood clots.
    I hope the children haven't caused you too much trouble.
- because: 
    I'll host the party cause I've got plenty of room at my house.
    I try to practise my French every day, cause I'm not very good at it.

soon /suːn/
- in or within a short time; before long; quickly: 
    She'll soon be here./She'll be here soon.
    It will soon be impossible for foreigners to enter the country.
    The sooner we leave, the sooner we'll get there.
    Soon after agreeing to go, she realized she'd made a mistake.
    How soon (= when) can we sign the contract?
    "When would you like to meet?" "The sooner the better."
    I couldn't get out of that place soon enough.
- at the same time or a very short time after: 
    As soon as I saw her, I knew there was something wrong.
- If you do something as soon as possible, you do it as quickly as you can: 
    We need the repairs done as soon as possible.
idioms:
 no sooner ... than
 no sooner said than done
 see you soon
 sooner or later
 would (just) as soon

wife /waɪf/
wife | plural wives
- the woman that you are married to: 
    I met Greg's wife for the first time.
    She's his third wife (= she is the third woman he has been married to).

use /juːz/
- to put something such as a tool, skill, or building to a particular purpose: 
    This glass has been used - could you get me a clean one?
    Use scissors to cut the shapes out.
    Going on the expedition gives me a chance to use all the training I've had.
    The old hospital isn't used any more.
    These lights are used for illuminating the playing area.
    To use military force against the protesters would be unacceptable.
- to reduce the amount of or finish something, by eating it, burning it, writing on it, or by a chemical reaction: 
    We've used (up) nearly all of the bread - will you buy some more?
    Does she still use drugs?
    Don't worry if you use the shampoo up (= use all of it) - I'll get more tomorrow.
- to say or write a particular word or phrase: 
    "Autumn" is used in British English and "fall" in American English.
    That's an expression she often uses to describe how she feels.
- to take advantage of a person or situation; to exploit: 
    He's just using you - he'll steal your ideas and then take the credit for them himself.
    It might be possible to use their mistake to help us get what we want.
- In negative sentences and questions, "use to" replaces "used to" when it follows "did" or "didn't": 
    Did he use to be the doctor in "Star Trek"?
    We didn't use to go out much during the winter.
- a purpose for which something is used: 
    A food processor has a variety of uses in the kitchen.
    Don't throw that cloth away - you'll find a use for it one day.
    No, I don't want to buy a boat - I don't have any use for one!
- the act of using something, or a period of time when something is being used or can be used: 
    You should be able to put your experience in electronics to (good) use in your new job.
    Don't touch the machine when it's in use.
    a flat-screen TV that becomes a mirror when it is not in use
    It's a name that has almost fallen out of use (= is hardly used now ).
    There has been an increase in the use of migrant workers in recent years.
    Traditional farming methods are going out of/coming into use (= used less and less/more and more) in many areas.
- to use something that is available: 
    We might as well make use of the hotel's facilities.
- permission to use something, or the ability to use something: 
    They said we could have the use of their beach house whenever they weren't there.
    She hurt her arm in the fall and lost the use of her fingers temporarily.
- the process of reducing the amount of something by burning it, eating it, involving it in a chemical reaction, etc.: 
    In anaerobic respiration, sugar is broken down to lactic acid without the use of oxygen.
    a more efficient use of resources
- one of the meanings of a word, or the way that a particular word is used: 
    Can you list all the uses of the word "point"?
idioms:
 could use sth
 use your head
 be (of) (any/some) use
 be (of) no use
 what's the use of...?
phrasal verbs:
 use sth up

chance /tʃɑːns/
- an occasion that allows something to be done: 
    I didn't get/have a chance to speak to her.
    If you give me a chance to speak, I'll explain.
    Society has to give prisoners a second chance when they come out of jail.
    He left and I missed my chance to say goodbye to him.
    I'd go now given half a chance (= if I had the slightest opportunity).
- the level of possibility that something will happen: 
    You'd have a better chance/more chance of passing your exams if you worked a bit harder.
    There's a good chance (that) I'll have this essay finished by tomorrow.
    There's a slim/slight chance (that) I might have to go to Manchester next week.
    If we hurry, there's still an outside (= very small) chance of catching the plane.
    "Is there any chance of speaking to him?" "Not a/No chance, I'm afraid."
    I don't think I stand/have a chance of winning.
    John thinks they're in with a chance (= they have a possibility of doing or getting what they want).
    Her resignation has improved my chances of promotion.
    What are her chances of survival?
    What are the chances that they'll win?
- a possibility that something negative will happen: 
    I'm delivering my work by hand - I'm not taking any chances.
    There's a chance of injury in almost any sport.
- the force that causes things to happen without any known cause or reason for doing so: 
    Roulette is a game of chance.
    I got this job completely by chance.
    It was pure/sheer chance (that) we met.
    We must double-check everything and leave nothing to chance.
- used to ask a question or request in a polite way: 
    Are you Hungarian, by any chance?
    Could you lend me a couple of pounds, by any chance?
    You wouldn't, by any chance, have a calculator on you, would you?
- to risk something: 
    You'd be a fool to chance your life savings on a single investment.
- to happen or do something by chance: 
    They chanced to be in the restaurant when I arrived.
    I chanced on/upon (= found unexpectedly) some old love letters in a drawer.
    Ten years after leaving school, we chanced on/upon (= unexpectedly met) each other in Regent Street.
idioms:
 chance would be a fine thing
 (the) chances are
 not give much for sb's chances
 chance your arm

run /rʌn/
run | present participle running | past tense ran | past participle run
- (of people and some animals) to move along, faster than walking, by taking quick steps in which each foot is lifted before the next foot touches the ground: 
    The children had to run to keep up with their father.
    I can run a mile in five minutes.
    The sheep ran away/off in fright.
    A little girl ran up to (= came quickly beside) me, crying for her daddy.
    In the semi-final she will be running against her nearest rival. 
    The first two races will be run (= will happen) in 20 minutes.
- If you run an animal in a race, you cause it to take part: 
    Thompson Stables are running three horses in the next race.
- to go quickly or in a hurry: 
    Would you run to the post office and get me some stamps?
    You don't put on weight when you spend all day running around after small children.
- to run fast in order to get or avoid something: 
    I ran for the bus but it drove off.
- to move your legs as if running, while you stay in one place: 
    I run on the spot to warm up before I start training.
- to (cause something to) travel, move, or continue in a particular way: 
    Trains are still running, despite the snow.
    A bus runs (= goes on a particular route at particular times) three times a day into town.
    Skis are waxed on the bottom so that they run smoothly over the snow.
    The route/railway/road runs (= goes) across the border/into Italy/through the mountains.
    A climbing rose bush runs (= grows) up the side of the door.
    There's a beautiful cornice running around/round all the ceilings.
    The film runs (= lasts) for two hours.
    The show/course/film runs (= continues) for another week.
    A magazine subscription usually only runs (= can be used) for one year.
    Buses are running an hour late, because of an earlier accident.
    The truck's brakes failed and it ran (= went) off the road.
    Trains run on rails (= move along on top of them).
    Electricity is running through (= moving along within) this cable.
    An angry muttering ran through (= went through) the crowd.
    A shiver of fear ran through his (body).
    She ran her finger along/down the page/list, looking for her name.
    Could you run the tape/film/video back/forwards, please?
    Could you possibly run me (= take me in your car) home/to the station?
    He ran (= pushed) his fingers through his hair and looked up at me.
- to (cause something to) operate: 
    Keep clear of the machines while they're running.
    The government took desperate measures to keep the economy running.
    Do you know how to run this sort of machinery?
    The mechanic asked me to run the engine (= switch it on and allow it to work) for a minute.
    They had the new computer system up and running (= working) within an hour.
    We've run the computer program, but nothing happens.
    We're running (= doing) an experiment.
- to be in control of something: 
    He's been running a restaurant/his own company since he left school.
    The local college runs (= provides) a course in self-defence.
    a well-run/badly-run organization/business/course
- to control a business or other organization firmly and effectively: 
    Ruth runs a tight ship and has no time for shirkers.
- If you run a car, you own one, drive it, and pay for the costs: 
    I can't afford to run a car.
- to organize the way you live or work: 
    Some people run their lives according to the movements of the stars.
- to (cause something to) flow or produce liquid : 
    I can feel trickles of sweat running down my neck.
    Don't cry, or your make-up will run (= become liquid and move down your face).
    The walls were running with damp.
    The river runs (down) to/into the sea.
    The hot tap is running cold (= producing cold water)!
    I turned the tap on and ran some cold water on the burn.
    I'll run you a hot bath (= fill a bath with water for you).
    My nose and eyes have been running all week because of hay fever.
    After twelve hours at her computer, the words began to run into one another (= seem mixed together).
- (of colours in clothes, etc.) to come out or spread: 
    I must have washed my dress at too high a temperature, because the colour has run.
    If the first layer isn't dry before you add the next one, the colours will run into each other (= mix).
- to be or become: 
    Differences between the two sides run deep (= are serious).
    The river/reservoir/well ran dry (= its supply of water finished).
    Supplies are running low (= there's not much left).
    We're beginning to run short of money/Money is beginning to run short (= there's not much left).
- If tights (= thin clothing that covers the legs) run, a long, thin hole appears in them: 
    Oh no, my tights have run!
- to show something in a newspaper or magazine, on television, etc.: 
    All the newspapers ran (= printed) stories about the new peace talks.
    Channel 4 is running a series on the unfairness of the legal system.
- If a film is running at a particular place, you can see it there: 
    What's running at the the Metro this week?
- to compete as a candidate in an election: 
    Mrs Thatcher wanted to run a fourth time.
    He's going to run against Smith/for president/for re-election.
- to compete as a candidate in an election for a position of authority and responsibility in a government or other organization: 
    She is considering running for office.
- to take guns or drugs illegally from one place to another: 
    He was arrested for running drugs across the border into America.
- the action of running, especially for exercise: 
    We go for/do a three-mile run every evening after work.
    If you set off at a run (= running), you'll be exhausted later.
- a journey: 
    The number of aircraft on the New York-Moscow run is being increased.
    Let's go for a run (out) in the car somewhere.
    The plane swooped in on its bombing run.
- the period during which a play is performed: 
    The musical's London run was a disaster.
    They're doing a run at the Cambridge Playhouse.
- a situation in which many people suddenly buy a particular product: 
    There's been a run on umbrellas because of all this rain.
- a situation in which many people suddenly sell a particular product: 
    A sudden run on the dollar has lowered its value.
- A run of something is a continuous period during which it lasts or is repeated: 
    a run of successes/defeats/bad luck
- the usual type of something: 
    Their food is the general run of hotel cooking.
- an area of ground of limited size for keeping animals: 
    a sheep/chicken/hen run
- in cricket and baseball, a single point, scored by running from one place to another: 
    England need 105 runs to win the game.
    a home run
- a long, vertical hole in tights and stockings: 
    I've got a run in my tights from the nail on my chair.
- a condition of the bowels in which the contents are passed out of the body too often and in a form that is too liquid
idioms:
 be running on empty
 run aground/ashore
 run a mile
 run and run
 run sb close
 run errands
 run high
 run in the family
 run through sb's head/mind
 run its course
 run your eye over sth
 run yourself into the ground
 be running a fever
 be running at sth
 running with blood
 run sb out of town (on a rail)
 run sb ragged
 run round in circles
 run the show
 run through sb's mind/head
 run sb/sth to ground
 run wild
 against the run of play
 give sb a run for his/her/their money
 have a good run for your money
 in the long run
 in the short run
 make a run for it
 be on the run
 on the run
 the run of sth
phrasal verbs:
 run across sb
 run across sth
 run after sb/sth
 run after sth
 run after sb
 run against sb/sth
 run along!
 run around
 run around after sb
 run around with sb
 run away
 run away with sb
 run away with sth
 run sth by sb
 run sb/sth down
 run (sth) down
 run sth down
 run yourself down
 run sth in
 run sb in
 run (sth) into sth/sb
 run into sb
 run into sth
 run off
 run sth off
 run off with sth
 run on
 run on sth
 run out
 run sb out
 run out on sb/sth
 run sb/sth over
 run over
 run over (sth)
 run over/through sth
 run round
 run through sth
 run sb/sth through
 run to sth
 run sth up
 run up against sth
 run with sth

move /muːv/
- to (cause to) change position: 
    I'm so cold I can't move my fingers.
    Will you help me move this table to the back room?
    Can we move (= change the time of) the meeting from 2 p.m. to 3.30 p.m. ?
    Don't move! Stay right where you are.
    I thought I could hear someone moving about/around upstairs.
    If you move along/over/up (= go further to the side, back, or front) a little, Tess can sit next to me.
    Police officers at the scene of the accident were asking people to move along/on (= to go to a different place).
    Come on, it's time we were moving (= time for us to leave).
    Let's stay here tonight, then move on (= continue our journey) tomorrow morning.
- to change the position of one of the pieces used in a board game: 
    In chess, the pieces can only move in certain directions.
- to go to a different place to live or work: 
    We're moving to Paris.
    They've bought a new house, but it will need a lot of work before they can move into it/move in.
    I hear Paula has moved in with her boyfriend (= gone to live in his house).
    The couple next door moved away (= went to live somewhere else) last year.
    A lot of businesses are moving out of London because it's too expensive.
- to leave your home in order to live in a new one: 
    We're moving house next week.
- to (cause to) progress, change, or happen in a particular way or direction: 
    The judge's decision will allow the case to move forward.
    If you want to move ahead in your career, you'll have to work harder.
    Share prices moved up/down slowly yesterday.
    Sophie has been moved up/down a grade at school.
    It's time this company moved into (= started to take advantage of the benefits of) the digital age.
- to cause someone to take action: 
    I can't imagine what could have moved him to say such a thing.
- to (cause to) change an opinion or the way in which you live or work: 
    He's made up his mind, and nothing you can say will move him on the issue.
    More and more people are movingaway from/towards vegetarianism.
- to cause someone to have strong feelings, such as sadness, sympathy, happiness, or admiration: 
    She said that she was deeply moved by all the letters of sympathy she had received.
    It was such a sad film that it moved him to tears (= made him cry).
- to sell: 
    No one wants to buy these toys - we just can't move them.
    This new shampoo is moving really fast.
- to spend time with people: 
    She moves in/among a very small circle of people.
- to suggest something, especially formally at a meeting or in a law court: 
    A vote was just about to be taken when someone stood up and said that they wished to move an amendment.
    I move that the proposal be accepted.
    Your Honour, we wish to move for dismissal of the charges.
- (used especially by doctors and nurses) to pass the contents of the bowels out of the body: 
    The doctor asked him if he'd moved his bowels that day.
- an act of moving: 
    She held the gun to his head and said, "One move and you're dead!"
    I hate the way my boss watches my every move (= watches everything I do).
- in some board games, a change of the position of one of the pieces used to play the game, or a change of position that is allowed by the rules, or a player's turn to move their piece: 
    It takes a long time to learn all the moves in chess.
    It's your move.
- an occasion when you go to live or work in a different place: 
    We've had four moves in three years.
- an action taken to achieve something: 
    Buying those shares was a good move.
    This move towards improving childcare facilities has been widely welcomed.
    The city council is making a move to improve traffic flow in the city.
- to be the first to take action: 
    Neither side seems prepared to make the first move towards reaching a peace agreement.
- to start a romantic or sexual relationship with someone: 
    She's liked him for a long time, but doesn't want to make the first move.
idioms:
 move heaven and earth
 move it!
 move on to bigger/better things
 move with the times
 not move a muscle
 be on the move
 get a move on
 make a move
phrasal verbs:
 move sb/sth in
 move in on sth/sb
 move off sth/on (to sth)
 move on
 move out

anyone /ˈen.i.wʌn/
- used in questions and negatives to mean "a person or people": 
    I haven't spoken to anyone all day.
    I haven't told anyone.
    Was there anyone you knew at the meeting?
    Has anyone seen my glasses anywhere?
- any person or any people: 
    Anyone can go - you don't have to be invited.
    Anyone could dress well with all that money.
idioms:
 anyone who is/was anyone

person /ˈpɜː.sən/
person | plural people uk/ˈpiː.pəl/ us/ˈpiː.pəl/formal persons
- a man, woman, or child: 
    Who was the first person to swim the English Channel?
    A meal at the restaurant costs about $70 for two people.
    Four persons have been charged with the murder.
- used when describing someone's character: 
    She's an extremely kind person.
    He's nice enough as a person, but he's not the right man for this job.
    I don't think of him as a book person (= a person who likes books).
- If you do something or go somewhere in person, you do it or go there yourself: 
    If you can't be there in person, the next best thing is watching it on TV.
- used in grammar to describe the verbs and pronouns that refer to the different people in a conversation. The first person ("I" or "we") refers to the person speaking, the second person ("you") refers to the person being spoken to and the third person ("he", "she", "it", or "they") refers to another person or thing being spoken about or described: 
    The novel is written in the first person, so that the author and narrator seem to be the same.
    "Am" is the first person singular of the verb "to be".
- used to combine with nouns to form new nouns referring to the particular job or duty that someone has. It is often used instead of -man or -woman to avoid making an unnecessary statement about the sex of the particular person: 
    spokesperson
    chairperson
    business people
idioms:
 in the person of sb
 on/about your person

bye /baɪ/
- goodbye: 
    Bye! See you next week!
- If someone is given a bye, they are allowed to miss out part of a competition and continue to the next stage without having to win anything: 
    European teams were granted a bye into the third round of the Cup.

somebody /ˈsʌm.bə.di/
- someone

heart /hɑːt/
- the organ in your chest that sends the blood around your body: 
    He's got a weak/bad heart (= his heart is not healthy).
    Isabel's heart was beating fast with fright.
- used to refer to a person's character, or the place within a person where feelings or emotions are considered to come from: 
    She has a good heart (= she is a kind person).
    I love you, and I mean it from the bottom of my heart (= very sincerely).
    I love you with all my heart (= very much).
    He said he'd never marry but he had a change of heart (= his feelings changed) when he met her.
    Homelessness is a subject very close/dear to her heart (= is very important to her and she has strong feelings about it).
    He broke her heart (= made her very sad) when he left her for another woman.
    It breaks my heart (= makes me feel very sad) to see him so unhappy.
    They say he died of a broken heart (= because he was so sad).
    It does my heart good (= makes me very happy) to see those children so happy.
    His heart leaped (= he suddenly felt very excited and happy) when the phone rang.
- the central or most important part: 
    The demonstrators will march through the heart of the capital.
    A disagreement about boundaries is at the heart of the dispute.
    Let's get to the heart of the matter.
- the firm central part of a vegetable, especially one with a lot of leaves: 
    artichoke hearts
    the heart of a lettuce
- courage, determination, or hope: 
    You're doing really well - don't lose heart now.
    Take heart - things can only get better.
- a shape, consisting of two half circles next to each other at the top and a V shape at the bottom, often coloured pink or red and used to represent love
- one of the four suits in playing cards, represented by a red heart shape: 
    the seven/ace of hearts
- a playing card from the suit of hearts: 
    In this game, a heart beats a club.
- used to say that you like someone or something very much: 
    I heart New York.
idioms:
 after your own heart
 at heart
 be all heart
 by heart
 have a heart!
 have a heart of gold
 have a heart of stone
 your heart aches
 heart and soul
 your heart goes out to sb
 sb's heart is in his/her boots
 sb's heart is in his/her mouth
 her/his heart is in the right place
 your heart isn't in it
 your heart skips/misses a beat
 your heart's desire
 in your heart of hearts
 my heart bleeds for sb
 not have the heart to do sth
 put your heart and soul into sth
 sb's heart sinks
 set your heart on sth/doing sth
 take sth to heart
 to your heart's content

such /sʌtʃ/
- used before a noun or noun phrase to add emphasis: 
    That's such a good film.
    It seems like such a long way to drive for just one day.
    You're such an idiot!
    Such cruelty really is beyond my comprehension.
    It was such a small room that the bed only just fit.
- of a particular or similar type: 
    Small companies such as ours are very vulnerable in a recession.
    I'm looking for a cloth for cleaning silver. Do you have such a thing?
    Present on this grand occasion were Andrew Davies, Melissa Peters, and other such stars.
    I tried to tell her in such a way that she wouldn't get offended.
    He said it was an Edwardian washstand or some such thing - I can't remember exactly.
    I just bought one or two things - bread and milk and such (also suchlike).
    Our lunch was such (= of a type) that we don't really need dinner.
- for example: 
    That money is to cover costs such as travel and accommodation.
- in the true or exact meaning of the word or phrase: 
    There wasn't much vegetarian food as such, although there were several different types of cheese.
    We don't have a secretary as such, but we do have a student who comes in to do some filing.
idioms:
 such as it is
 such is life
 there's no such thing/person (as)

point /pɔɪnt/
- an idea, opinion, or piece of information that is said or written: 
    I'd like to discuss the first point in your essay.
    You made some interesting points in your speech.
- the meaning or most important part of what someone says or writes: 
    The point is, if you don't claim the money now you might never get it.
    I think you missed (= did not understand) the point of what she was saying.
    I take your point/Point taken (= I understand that what you are saying is important).
    Please get to the point (= say the thing that is most important to you).
    He hasn't got much money, but that's not the point (= that is not the important thing).
- an opinion or fact that deserves to be considered seriously, or that other people agree is true: 
    Yes, I can see your point/you've got a point there.
    OK, you've made your point (= told us your opinion) - there's no need to go on about it.
- not important or not related to the subject being discussed: 
    The fact that he doesn't want to come is beside the point - he should have been invited.
- said to show that what someone has just said is true or important: 
    "We'll take the bus." "But we don't have any money for the fare." "That's a point."
- a particular time or stage reached in a process: 
    At that point, a soldier opened fire on the car.
    I was completely lost at one point.
    It was so confusing that eventually it got to the point where no one knew what was going on.
    I said I'd tell her the bad news, but when it came to the point (= when I had to do it), I couldn't.
- a particular place: 
    the point where the road bends
    This is a good point from which to watch the race.
- the temperature at which a substance boils, melts, freezes, etc.
- purpose or usefulness: 
    There's no point arguing about it - we're going and that's that.
    I'd like to write to him, but what's the point? He never writes back.
    I see little point in discussing this further.
- a mark or unit for counting, especially how much a person or team has scored in a sport: 
    The youngest skier won the most points.
    He won the world heavyweight boxing championship on points (= as a result of the points that he had won).
    Interest rates have risen by two percentage points (= two percent).
- a unit used for measuring the size of printed letters, equal to about 0.3 mm or 1/72 of an inch: 
    The large letters are in 7.5 point type, and the small letters are in 6 point.
- the sharp end of something, such as a knife: 
    The knife landed with its point sticking into the floor.
    Be careful with that needle - it has a very sharp point.
- a particular quality or characteristic of a person or thing: 
    There are various points to look out for when you're judging dogs in a competition.
    He's boring, but I suppose he has his good points.
    I think her kindness is one of her strong points (= one of her good qualities).
- a long, thin area of land that stretches out into the sea: 
    Spurn Point
- a small, round spot that is used in numbers to separate whole numbers from parts of numbers: 
    One kilogram equals two point two (= 2.2) pounds.
    The error occurred when someone left out the decimal point.
- the toes of a ballet dancer's shoes: 
    She is learning how to dance on her points.
- a socket to which a wire from a piece of electrical equipment is connected in order to supply it with electricity or a radio, television, or other signal: 
    a TV antenna point
    There is a phone point in every room.
- in some car engines, either of two parts that allow or prevent the flow of electricity: 
    He checked the points and plugs and topped up the oil.
- a place on a railway track where the rails (= metal bars on which the trains travel) can be moved to allow a train to change from one track to another: 
    The train rattled as it went over the points.
- a small, round mark on a line, plan, or map to show the position of something: 
    Join the points A and B together on the diagram with a straight line.
- a mark on a compass that shows direction, such as north, south, east, and west
- a very small, round light that you can see in the distance: 
    I could just make out the tiny points of a car's headlights far away.
- to direct other people's attention to something by holding out your finger towards it: 
    "Look at that!" she said, pointing at the hole in the door.
    Small children are often told that it's rude to point.
- to hold something out in the direction of someone or something: 
    He said that the man had pointed a knife at him.
- If something points in a particular direction, it is turned towards that direction: 
    The road sign points left.
    All the cars were pointing in the same direction.
    There was an arrow pointing to the door.
- to fill the gaps between bricks, etc. with mortar (= a mixture of sand, water, and cement): 
    The physical work of preservation includes pointing handmade bricks and repairing windows.
    They failed to identify problems such as condensation, badly pointed walls and leaky gutters.
- relating to when a ballet dancer dances on their toes: 
    a pair of point shoes
    Today we'll do some point work.
idioms:
 be on the point of (doing) sth
 make a point of doing sth
 my point exactly
 on point
 to the point
 up to a point
 point sb towards/in the direction of sth
phrasal verbs:
 point (sth/sb) out
 point sth out
 point to/towards sth
 point sth up

later /ˈleɪ.tər/
- at a time in the future or after the time you have mentioned: 
    He'll be back later.
    We could always go later in the season.
    Police questioned him and he was later arrested.
- at a time in the future, or after the time you have mentioned: 
    What are you doing later on this evening?
    Shall I go and fetch her later on?
    Later on, we could go and have a meal if you like.
- not after: 
    She said she'd prefer us to arrive no later than nine o'clock.
- happening at a time in the future, or after the time you have mentioned: 
    We could catch a later train.
    You can always change your password at a later date.
- happening towards the end of a period of time or the end of someone's life: 
    He needed round-the-clock care in the later stages of his illness.
    During his later years, he lived in Cape Town.
- more modern or recent: 
    Later versions of the software are much better.
    Later models included a 2.5 litre engine.
    I prefer her earlier paintings to her later work.
- a way of saying goodbye: 
    Laters, Mike.
idioms:
 see/catch you later!

meet /miːt/
meet | met | met
- to see and talk to someone for the first time: 
    They met at work.
    I met her in Hawaii.
    Would you like to meet my sister?
    Come and meet (= be introduced to) my friend Laura.
- to come together with someone intentionally: 
    Lorraine and I meet for lunch once a month.
    We agreed to meet on Tuesday to discuss the project.
    The children's club meets every Thursday afternoon.
    They're meeting with their advisers to draw up a new plan.
    The president met the UK prime minister in London yesterday.
- to come together with someone without intending to: 
    It's always awkward when you meet someone you know but you can't remember their name.
    Guess who I met in town today.
    We met our old neighbours at an auction last Saturday.
- to fulfil, satisfy, or achieve: 
    The workers' demands for higher pay were not met by the management.
    We haven't yet been able to find a house that meets our needs/requirements.
    They will only agree to sign the contract if certain conditions are met.
    Do you think we will be able to meet our deadline/target?
- to pay: 
    The company has agreed to meet all our expenses.
- to wait at a place for someone or something to arrive: 
    Will you meet me at the airport (= be there when the aircraft arrives)?
- to touch or join something: 
    There's a large crack where the ceiling meets the wall.
    The curtains don't quite meet.
    The horizon is the line where the sky meets the earth.
- to experience something: 
    I've never met that kind of problem/system before.
    He met his death (= he died) in the icy waters of the South Atlantic.
- a sports event: 
    a track/swim meet
    the first meet of the season
- an occasion when people go fox hunting
idioms:
 be more to this than meets the eye
 eyes meet
 meet sb's eye
 meet sb halfway
 meet your maker
 meet your match
 meet your Waterloo
phrasal verbs:
 meet up
 meet with sth

anyway /ˈen.i.weɪ/
- whatever else is happening, without considering other things: 
    Of course I don't mind taking you home - I'm going that way anyway.
    "I thought you said everyone had left." "Well, some of them have anyway."
    Her parents were opposed to her giving up her course, but she did it anyway.
- In conversation, anyway is also used to change the subject, return to an earlier subject, or get to the most interesting point: 
    Anyway, as I said, I'll be away next week.
    Anyway, in the end I didn't wear your jacket.
    What was he doing with so much of the company's money in his personal account anyway?
- used to give a more important reason for something that you are saying: 
    I don't have time to go, and anyway it's too expensive.

phone /fəʊn/
- a device that uses either a system of wires along which electrical signals are sent or a system of radio signals to make it possible for you to speak to someone in another place who has a similar device: 
    Just then, his phone rang.
    Could you answer the phone?
    We speak on the/by phone about twice a week.
    You had three phone calls this morning.
    If the phone lines are busy, please try again later.
    Could you pick the phone up for me - my hands are wet.
    I left the phone off the hook, so it wouldn't ring.
    I was so angry I just put/slammed the phone down (on her) (= replaced it before our conversation was finished).
- to be using the phone: 
    That son of mine is on the phone all day!
- to have a landline in the home: 
    Are the Middletons on the phone at their cottage, do you know?
- a unit of sound at the phonetic level, used when studying speech
- to communicate with someone by phone: 
    She phoned just after lunch.
    He's phoned me (up) every day this week.
phrasal verbs:
 phone in
 phone sth in

reason /ˈriː.zən/
- the cause of an event or situation or something that provides an excuse or explanation: 
    The reason for the disaster was engine failure, not human error.
    The reason why grass is green was a mystery to the little boy.
    The reason (that) I'm calling is to ask a favour.
    The reason I walked out was because I was bored.
    The police have (every good) reason to believe that he is guilty.
    She was furious, and with reason (= with good cause).
    For some reason/For reasons best known to himself (= for reasons no one else knows about) he's decided to leave his job.
- because of: 
    He's always asked to these occasions by reason of his position.
- the ability of a healthy mind to think and make judgments, especially based on practical facts: 
    We humans believe that we are the only animals to have the power of reason.
    He lost his reason (= became mentally ill) when both his parents were killed in the crash.
- within the limits of what is acceptable and possible: 
    We can wear anything we like to the office, within reason.
- to try to understand and to make judgments based on practical facts: 
    Newton reasoned (that) there must be a force such as gravity
    I spent hours reasoning out the solution to the puzzle.
idioms:
 listen to reason
phrasal verbs:
 reason with sb

lost /lɒst/
- not knowing where you are and how to get to a place: 
    I got lost in the New York subway system.
    You look lost - can I help you?
- If something is lost, no one knows where it is: 
    Things tend to get lost when you move.
    Lost: black cat with white paws.
    Mikey turned up with the lost book.
- not confident and not knowing what to do in a particular situation: 
    It was his first day in the office and he seemed a little lost.
- giving so much attention to what you are doing that you are not conscious of anything else that is happening around you: 
    Ann was completely lost in her book.
idioms:
 be lost for words
 be lost on sb
 be lost without sb/sth
 get lost!
 lost in the shuffle

look /lʊk/
- to direct your eyes in order to see: 
    Look! There's grandma.
    They looked at the picture and laughed.
    Look at all these toys on the floor.
    She looked up from her book and smiled at me.
    I looked out (of) the window.
    Look over there - there's a rainbow!
- to try to find something or someone: 
    I'm looking for my keys.
    I looked everywhere, but I couldn't find my glasses.
    Have you looked in the dictionary?
    I looked down the list but couldn't see his name.
- to appear or seem: 
    You look well!
    The roads look very icy.
    That dress looks nice on you.
    He has started to look his age (= appear as old as he really is).
    It's looking good (= things are going well).
    He looked (like) a friendly sort of person.
    The twins look just like their mother.
    She looked as if/though she hadn't slept all night.
    It looks like rain (= as if it is going to rain).
- to face a particular direction: 
    The garden looks south.
    This window looks out onto the lake.
- used when you are telling someone to be careful or to pay attention: 
    Look where you're going!
    Look at the time - we're late!
- to be planning to do something: 
    I'm looking to start my own business.
- the act of looking at someone or something: 
    She gave him a look of real dislike.
    Take a (good) look at this picture and see if you recognize anyone.
    Can I have a look at your dictionary?
- the act of trying to find someone or something: 
    I had another look for the watch, but couldn't find it.
- an expression on someone's face: 
    She had a worried look about her.
    She gave me a questioning look.
- a style or fashion: 
    The look this year will be relaxed and casual.
- the appearance of someone or something: 
    They liked the look of the hotel, but it was too expensive.
    I don't like the look of that fence (= it appears to have something wrong with it).
- a person's appearance, especially how attractive they are: 
    I like her looks.
    Her looks improved as she grew older.
    He put on weight and started to lose his looks.
- used to express anger: 
    Look, I've already told you it's not possible.
    Look here, I've had enough of this.
idioms:
 be looking for trouble
 be not much to look at
 I'm just looking
 look daggers at sb
 look kindly on sb/sth
 look lively/sharp!
 look on the bright side
 look sb in the eye/face
 look out for number one
 look straight/right through sb
 look to your laurels
 make sb look small
 never look a gift horse in the mouth
 never look back
 by the look(s) of things
 if looks could kill...
phrasal verbs:
 look after sb/sth
 look ahead
 look around (somewhere/sth)
 look at sth
 look back
 look down on sb
 look forward to sth
 look in
 look into sth
 look on
 look on/upon sb/sth as sth
 look out
 look sth out
 look out for sb/sth
 look over sth
 look round (somewhere/sth)
 look through sth
 look to sb to do sth
 look to sb for sth
 look up
 look sth up
 look sb up
 look up to sb

bring /brɪŋ/
bring | brought | brought
- to take or carry someone or something to a place or a person, or in the direction of the person speaking: 
    "Shall I bring anything to the party?" "Oh, just a bottle."
    Bring me that knife/Bring that knife to me.
    Can you help me bring in the shopping (= take it into the house)?
    The police brought several men in for questioning (= took them to the police station because they might have been involved in a crime).
    When they visit us they always bring their dog with them.
- to cause, result in, or produce a state or condition: 
    She's brought us so much happiness over the years.
    The explosion brought the whole building crashing to the ground.
    Several trees were brought down (= made to fall) by the storm.
    The closure of the factory brought poverty to the town (= resulted in it becoming poor).
    Bring the water to the boil (= make it start boiling).
    She suddenly brought the interview to an end.
    Her tragic story brought tears to my eyes (= made me cry).
    What will the future bring for these refugees?
- to cause someone to come to a particular place or thing: 
    This subject brings me to the second part of the discussion.
    What brings you (= why have you come) to Miami?
- to make or begin as part of an official legal process: 
    He was arrested for fighting, but the police have decided not to bring charges.
idioms:
 bring sb to book
 bring sb up short
 bring home the bacon
 bring the house down
 bring up the rear
 not bring yourself to do something
phrasal verbs:
 bring sth about
 bring sb/sth along
 bring sb around
 bring sth back
 bring sb down
 bring sth down
 bring sth forward
 bring sth in
 bring sb in
 bring sth off
 bring sb on
 bring sth on
 bring sb out
 bring sth out
 bring sb out in sth
 bring sb round
 bring sb to
 bring sb/sth together
 bring sb up
 bring sth up

case /keɪs/
- a particular situation or example of something: 
    Over a hundred people were injured, in several cases seriously.
    Jobs are hard to find but in his case that's not the problem because he has so much experience.
    I wouldn't normally agree but I'll make an exception in this case.
    The number of new cases of the illness appears to be declining.
    We have lots of applications from people who want to study here and in each case we consider the candidate very carefully.
    She was suffering from an extreme case of sunburn.
- because of the mentioned situation: 
    There's no coffee left? In that case I'll have tea.
- (not) true: 
    If that is the case then I will be very disappointed.
- also: 
    I don't want to go and in any case, I haven't been invited.
- because of a possibility of something happening, being needed, etc.: 
    I don't think I'll need any money but I'll bring some just in case.
    Bring a map in case you get lost.
- if something happens, or in preparation for when something happens: 
    The camping area has ready access to water, in case of fire.
- in connection with someone or something, or in the situation of something: 
    The law will apply equally to men and women except in the case of maternity leave.
- used when a situation is of a particular type: 
    She doesn't want to work full-time, it's a case of having to.
- an example that shows that what you are saying is true or helps to explain why you are saying it: 
    Lack of communication causes serious problems and their marriage is a case in point.
- one of the stated possibilities that is true: 
    When the election is called in April, or June, as the case might be, we shall be ready for it.
- a problem, a series of events, or a person being dealt with by police, doctors, lawyers, etc.: 
    Several social workers have looked into the child's case.
    The detective on the case (= responsible for solving it) has been suspended from duty.
    When he first went for treatment at the hospital he seemed to be a hopeless case (= a person who could not be cured).
- a matter to be decided by a judge in a law court: 
    a murder case
    The case will go before the European Court next month.
    She accused her employer of unlawful dismissal and won/lost her case.
- a container or box for storing things in
- a box holding twelve or more bottles of wine or another type of drink, or the bottles and their contents: 
    He bought his brother a case of wine for his birthday.
    Can you get some more cola? The kids drank the whole case.
- arguments, facts, and reasons in support of or against something: 
    There's a good case for/against bringing in new regulations.
    The case against cigarette advertising is becoming stronger all the time.
    She's very busy so don't overstate the case - just give her the facts.
- any of the various types to which a noun can belong, according to the work it does in a sentence, shown in some languages by a special word ending: 
    the accusative/dative case
- each of the two forms, capital or small, in which a letter of the alphabet may be written or printed: 
    upper-case/lower-case letters
- to look at a place with the intention of stealing from it later: 
    He looked around shiftily, as if he was casing the joint.
idioms:
 be on the case
 get off sb's case
 get on sb's case
 make a case for sth

wish /wɪʃ/
- used with the past simple to express that you feel sorry or sad about a state or situation that exists at the moment: 
    I wish (that) I was/were a bit taller.
    I wish (that) you were coming with me, Peter.
- used with the past perfect to express that you feel sorry or sad about a particular action in the past: 
    I wish (that) I hadn't eaten so much.
    I bet she wishes (that) she'd never got involved in the whole mess.
- to want to do something: 
    As you wish, Sir. It will be done.
    I wish to make a complaint.
    Passengers wishing to take the Kings Cross train should board now.
    I don't wish to worry you but he did say he'd be back by midnight.
    Sometimes I was so depressed that I wished myself dead.
- used to express anger at someone's behaviour: 
    I wish she'd shut up for a minute and let someone else talk.
    I wish you'd look at me when I'm trying to talk to you!
- to hope or express hope for another person's success or happiness or pleasure on a particular occasion: 
    We wish you every success in the future.
    I didn't even see her to wish her a happy birthday/wish a happy birthday to her.
    I wished her a safe journey and waved her off.
- to hope someone will succeed: 
    I wished him well with his new venture.
- to hope that something you want will be made real because of good luck or magical powers: 
    I remember blowing out the candles on my birthday cake and wishing that John Lee would be my boyfriend.
    If I could wish myself anywhere in the world (= go anywhere as a result of making a wish) right now it would be somewhere hot and sunny.
    He's funny, bright, handsome - everything a girl could wish for really.
    "Your job must be very glamorous." "I wish!" (= not at all.)
    "By the time I'm 40, I'll be rich." "You wish!" (= There is no chance of that happening.)
- to welcome someone with particular words or a particular action: 
    He wishes me every morning.
- a feeling of wanting something: 
    Did he express any wish to see me?
    In accordance with his wishes (= what he wanted), he was buried next to his wife.
    They've deliberately gone against my wishes and sold the house.
    It was grandpa's greatest wish that one of his grandchildren would become a doctor.
- something you say or write at the end of a letter, etc. to show that you hope someone is happy and has good luck: 
    He ended the letter "Best wishes, Carlo".
    Best wishes for a speedy recovery.
    With best wishes, Louise Foster.
    When you see Joyce, please give her my good wishes.
- a hope that is made real with magical powers: 
    If I could have just one wish I suppose it would be that all the fighting in the world would stop tomorrow.
    Close your eyes and make a wish.
    It's that part of the story where the fairy grants the little girl three wishes.
    May all your wishes come true.
idioms:
 I/you wouldn't wish sth on anyone/my/your worst enemy
phrasal verbs:
 wish sth away

tomorrow /təˈmɒr.əʊ/
- (on) the day after today: 
    I'm having dinner with Rachel tomorrow night.
    Oh, leave it till tomorrow.
    Is John coming to tomorrow's meeting?
    He'll be back tomorrow week/a week tomorrow (= a week from tomorrow).
    He'll be back a week from tomorrow.
- used more generally to mean the future: 
    Today's problem child may be tomorrow's criminal.
    We make sacrifices now to give our children a better tomorrow.
idioms:
 like there is/was no tomorrow

trust /trʌst/
- to believe that someone is good and honest and will not harm you, or that something is safe and reliable: 
    My sister warned me not to trust him.
    Trust me - I know about these things.
    Trust your instincts, and do what you think is right.
    I don't trust air travel - it's unnatural.
    I trust him to make the right decision.
    That man is not to be trusted.
    I wouldn't trust him with my car.
    Sometimes you have to trust in the goodness of human nature.
    However much you plan an expedition like this, you still have to trust to luck to a certain extent.
- to hope and expect that something is true: 
    I trust (that) you slept well?
    The meeting went well, I trust.
- the belief that you can trust someone or something: 
    a relationship based on trust and understanding
    We were obviously wrong to put our trust in her.
    He's in a position of trust (= a position with responsibilities, especially to the public).
- to believe that something is true although you have no proof
- a legal arrangement in which a person or organization controls property and/or money for another person or organization: 
    Under the terms of the trust he receives interest on the money, but he cannot get at the money itself.
    The money that her father left her is being held/kept in trust (= being controlled) for her until she's 30.
- an organization that controls property and/or money for another person: 
    He works for a charitable trust.
    Housing trusts help to provide houses for people who are not well off.
- used in the name of some banks: 
    Morgan Guaranty Trust
idioms:
 I wouldn't trust sb as far as I could throw them
 trust sb (to do sth)!

check /tʃek/
- to make certain that something or someone is correct, safe, or suitable by examining it, him, or her quickly: 
    You should always check your oil, water, and tyres before taking your car on a long trip.
    Customs stopped us and checked (= searched) our bags for alcohol and cigarettes.
    After I'd finished the exam, I checked my answers for mistakes.
    The doctor will call next week to check on your progress.
    I check on (= visits) our elderly neighbour every few days to make sure that he's alright.
    I always check (that) I've shut the windows before I leave the house.
    He double-checked all the doors (= checked them all twice) before leaving the house.
- to find out about something: 
    I called them yesterday to check when they were arriving.
    If you're near the garage, could you check to see (= ask) if the car's ready?
    If you're unsure of your legal rights, I would check with (= ask) a lawyer.
- to stop someone from doing or saying something, or to prevent something from increasing or continuing: 
    They have begun to vaccinate children in an attempt to check the spread of the disease.
- to give your bags to airport employees to be put on a plane for you, rather than carrying them on and off the plane yourself : 
    I got my boarding pass and checked my suitcase.
    Many airlines charge extra for checked bags/baggage/luggage.
- to leave something with someone at a particular place, so that they can take care of it for a short time: 
    It was hot so we checked our coats before going round the gallery.
- If information checks, it agrees with other information: 
    Her statement checks with most of the eye-witness reports.
- to mark something with a check: 
    Check (off) each item on the list as you complete it.
- in the game of chess, to put the other player's king under direct attack, so that he or she is forced to defend against the attack in the next move
- in some sports such as ice hockey, to try to make another player lose the ball or puck, for example, by pushing them
- US spelling of 
cheque UK 
- an examination of something in order to make certain that it is correct or the way it should be: 
    The soldiers gave their equipment a final check before setting off.
    "I can't find my keys." "Have another check in/through your jacket pockets."
    Security checks have become really strict at the airport.
    The police are carrying out spot checks on (= quick examinations of a limited number of) drivers over the Christmas period to test for alcohol levels.
    It's my job to keep a check on stock levels.
    I'll just run a check on (= find information about) that name for you in the computer.
- a pattern of squares formed by lines of different colours crossing each other: 
    a shirt with a pattern of blue and yellow checks
    a grey check suit
- a 
bill  in a restaurant, etc.: 
    Can I have the check, please?
- to limit something: 
    We need to find ways of keeping our expenditure in check.
- rules intended to prevent one person or group from having too much power within an organization: 
    A system of checks and balances exists to ensure that our government is truly democratic.
- a mark (✓) that shows that something is correct or has been done: 
    Put a check by/against the names of the people who have accepted the invitation.
- in chess, the act of directly attacking the other player's king: 
    I think I should have given check (= attacked my opponent's king) at move 23 instead of trying to find a safer square for the rook.
- If your king is in check in chess, it is being directly attacked by the other player: 
    Your king is in check from my knight.
- in some sports such as ice hockey, a defensive move (= trying to prevent scoring) in which a player tries to make another player lose the ball or puck, for example, by pushing them
- used to say yes to someone who is making certain that all the things on a list have been dealt with or included: 
    "Did you bring your sleeping bag?" "Check." "Pillow?" "Check."
- something you say in chess, if you directly attack the other player's king
phrasal verbs:
 check in
 check in/check into sth
 check sth in
 check sth off
 check out
 check sth out
 check up on sb

end /end/
- the part of a place or thing that is furthest away from the centre: 
    This cable should have a plug at one end and a socket at the other.
    We damaged the end of the piano when we moved it.
    Get to the end of the queue and wait your turn like everyone else.
    Our house is the third from the end on the left.
    Is it safe to stand the computer on (its) end?
- the final part of something such as a period of time, activity, or story: 
    I always like to leave my desk clear at the end of the day.
    The end of the play was much more exciting than I'd expected.
    This latest injury must surely mean that her tennis career is now at an end (= finished).
    The statement said there would be no end to the violence until the terrorists' demands were met.
- polite word for death: 
    We were all by her bedside when the end finally came.
    He met his end (= died) in a shoot-out with the police.
- either of the two halves of the field in some sports: 
    The teams change ends at half-time so that neither side has an unfair advantage.
- one of the two players in American football who begin play furthest from the ball
- to make something finish: 
    Having agreed upon the matter of payment, he brought the interview to an end.
- finally, after something has been thought about or discussed a lot: 
    We were thinking about going to Switzerland, but in the end we went to Austria.
- for hours, days, etc. without stopping: 
    He used to lock himself in his bedroom for hours on end and refuse to talk to anyone.
- to finish: 
    Everyone wishes the war would come to an end soon.
- a small part of something that is left after most of it has been used: 
    She makes quilts out of fabric bolt ends.
    The floor was covered in cigarette ends.
- an aim, intention, or purpose: 
    Do you have a particular end in mind?
- in order to achieve this aim: 
    He wanted science students to take an interest in the arts, and to this end he ran literature classes at his home on Sunday afternoons.
- the parts of a task or process connected with one particular type of activity or person: 
    Rick's more involved with the financial end of things.
- the area of activity for which someone is responsible: 
    We've kept our end of the deal - let's see if they keep theirs.
- to finish or stop, or to make something finish or stop: 
    When is your meeting due to end?
    Her resignation ends months of speculation about her future.
    Their marriage ended in 1991.
    The game ended in a draw.
    I'd like to end with a song from my first album.
    She ended her speech on an optimistic note.
idioms:
 at the end of the day
 at the end of your tether
 the end justifies the means
 end of
 end of story
 the end of the line/road
 get/have your end away
 keep/hold your end up
 make ends meet
 no end
 no end of sth
 not be the end of the world
 put an end to sth
 end it (all)
 it'll (all) end in tears
phrasal verbs:
 end up

late /leɪt/
- (happening or being) near the end of a period of time: 
    It was late at night.
    We talked late into the night.
    Is that the time? I'd no idea it was so late.
    It was late summer when it happened.
    It was built in the late 19th century.
    He's probably in his late twenties.
    As late (= as recently) as the 1980s they were still using horses on this farm.
- (happening or arriving) after the planned, expected, usual, or necessary time: 
    This train is always late.
    You'll be late for your flight if you don't hurry up.
    Sorry I'm late. I was held up in the traffic.
    It's too late to start complaining now.
    We always have a late breakfast on Sunday mornings.
    Some late news (= news of something that happened after the news programme started) has just come in - a bomb has exploded in central London.
    Our ferry was two hours late because of the strike.
    Kathryn's just phoned to say she's working late this evening.
- in football, if a tackle is late, it is made after the ball has been moved by another player and the player, not the ball, is kicked: 
    He was booked for a late challenge in the first minute.
- used to refer to someone who has died: 
    She gave her late husband's clothes to charity.
idioms:
 be/come late to the party
 late in the day
 of late
 too little, too late

anymore /ˌen.iˈmɔːr/
- If you do not do something or something does not happen anymore, you have stopped doing it or it does not now happen: 
    I don't do yoga anymore.

five /faɪv/
- the number 5: 
    Five, four, three, two, one, blast-off!
    I work five days a week.
idioms:
 give me five!
 give sb five
 take five

least /liːst/
- less than anything or anyone else; the smallest amount or number: 
    This group is the least likely of the four to win.
    Disaster struck when we least expected it.
    It was the answer she least wanted to hear.
    I like the green one least of all.
    He's the relative I like (the) least.
    No one believed her, least of all (= especially not) the police.
    They refused to admit her, not least because (= there were several reasons but this was an important one) she didn't have her membership card with her.
idioms:
 at least
 it's the least I can do
 the least sb can/could do
 least said soonest mended
 not in the least
 not the least

town /taʊn/
- a place where people live and work, containing many houses, shops, places of work, places of entertainment, etc., and usually larger than a village but smaller than a city: 
    a seaside/coastal town
    a fishing/mining/industrial town
    He was born in the small town of Castleford, in Yorkshire.
    We stayed in the best hotel in town.
    the main road into/out of town
- the part of a town where most of the businesses are: 
    I'm going into/to town at lunchtime to do some shopping.
    I met Charles while I was in town.
- the most important city or town in a country or area: 
    We went up to town to see a play.
    Many people commute into town (= London) from Essex.
- the place where you live or work: 
    I'm leaving town for a few days.
    Barbara is out of town on business this week.
- the people who live in the town: 
    The whole town is/are hoping that their team will win the final tomorrow.
- a town or city, rather than the countryside: 
    I've always lived in the town.
idioms:
 go to town
 on the town

year /jɪər/
- a period of twelve months, especially from 1 January to 31 December: 
    Annette worked in Italy for two years.
    2005 was one of the worst years of my life.
    We went to Egypt on holiday last year.
    At this time of year the beaches are almost deserted.
    This species keeps its leaves all year (round) (= through the year).
- a period of twelve months relating to a particular activity: 
    The financial/tax year begins in April.
- the part of the year, in a school or university, during which courses are taught: 
    the academic/school year
    She's now in her final/first/second year at Manchester University.
    My daughter is in her freshman/sophomore/junior/senior year. 
- a group of students who start school, college, university, or a course together: 
    Kathy was in the year above me at college.
- used to refer to a student in a particular year group at a school, college, or university: 
    I like teaching the first-years, but the second-years can be difficult.
    a first-year student
idioms:
 for a man/woman/person of his/her years
 for years
 from/since the year dot
 in/through all the years
 of the year
 put years on sb
 take years off sb
 year in, year out

make /meɪk/
make | made | made
- to produce something, often using a particular substance or material: 
    Do you want me to make some coffee?
    He made a chocolate cake.
    She makes all her own clothes.
    He made us some coffee./He made some coffee for us.
    The pot is made to withstand high temperatures.
    He works for a company that makes furniture.
    The label on the box said "made in China".
    Butter is made out of/from milk.
    earrings made of gold
    Her new trainer has promised to make an Olympic athlete of her.
- To make a film or television programme is to direct, produce it, or act in it: 
    John Huston made some great movies.
    The movie was made by Goldcrest Productions.
    So why didn't Garbo make any films after 1941?
- to cause something: 
    The kids made a real mess in the kitchen.
    The bullet made a hole right through his chest.
    The wind is making my eyes water.
    What made you change your mind?
    Just seeing Woody Allen's face is enough to make me laugh.
    The photograph makes me look about 80!
- to cause to be, to become, or to appear as: 
    It's the good weather that makes Spain such a popular tourist destination.
    She had to shout to make herself heard above the sound of the music.
    I can make myself understood in French, but I'm not fluent.
    They went up to the Ambassador and made themselves known (to her).
    The company accounts have not yet been made public.
    The book's advertised as "navigation made easy".
    The president has made Henry Paulson his Secretary of the Treasury.
    I'll have a steak - no, make that chicken.
- to take action so that you are certain that something happens, is true, etc.: 
    I'll just make sure I've turned the oven off.
    Make certain (that) we have enough food for the party.
    Make sure you're home by midnight.
    Jones made sure of his place on the team with three great goals.
    I think I locked the door but I'll go back and check just to make sure.
- to force someone or something to do something: 
    You can't make him go if he doesn't want to.
    The vet put something down the dog's throat to make it vomit.
- to be forced to do something: 
    The prisoners are made to dig holes and fill them up again.
- to perform an action: 
    I have to make a phone call.
    Somebody has made a donation of £1 million to the charity Oxfam.
    I need to make a doctor's appointment.
    On foot they could only make about 20 miles a day.
    We must make a decision by tomorrow.
    You're not making any effort.
    Someone has made a mistake/an error.
    We're making good progress.
    She has made a request for a new car.
    We made an offer of £450,000 for the house.
    She made a short speech.
    Is it time to make a start on the work?
    Can I make a suggestion?
    We made good time getting across town.
    There's a drunk at the door making trouble.
- If you make room/space/way for something or someone, you move your body or move other things, so that there is space for it, him, or her.
- to pull up and tidy the covers on a bed after it has been slept in: 
    She hurried upstairs and quickly made the beds.
- to produce a total when added together: 
    12 and 12 make 24.
    Today's earthquake makes five since the beginning of the year.
    I have 29 different teapots in my collection - if I buy this one that'll make it 30.
- to calculate as: 
    How much do you make the total?
    I make the answer (to be) 105.6.
    What do you make the time?/What time do you make it?
- to earn or get: 
    She makes $100,000 a year as a doctor.
    How do you make a living as a painter?
    The company has made huge profits/losses.
    He's very good at making new friends.
- to arrive at or reach, especially successfully: 
    She made it to the airport just in time to catch her plane.
    He made it to the bed and then collapsed.
    Could you make a meeting at 8 a.m.?/Could you make an 8 a.m. meeting?
- to succeed in getting a place in a team: 
    She failed to make the Olympic squad.
- to appear as a story in the news: 
    His story made the papers back home.
    The civil war in Mozambique made few headlines around the globe.
- to cause to be perfect: 
    Those little bows around the neck really make the dress!
- a type of product or the name of the company that made it: 
    What make is your laptop?
idioms:
 be made for sb/sth
 be made of money
 do you want to make something/anything of it?
 make sth up as you go along
 make a day/night/evening/weekend of it
 make as if to do sth
 make do
 make it (to the top)
 make it quick/fast
 make it up to sb
 make it with sb
 make like
 make much/a lot of sb
 make much of sth
 make or break sth
 be make or break for sb/sth
 make time
 make to do sth
 what sb is (really) made of
 be on the make
phrasal verbs:
 make for somewhere/sth
 make for sth
 make sth into sth
 make sth/sb of sth/sb
 make sth of sth
 make off
 make off with sth
 make sth/sb out
 make sth out
 make out sth
 make out
 make sb/sth over
 make sth over to sb
 make towards sth/sb
 make sth up
 make sb/sth up
 make up sth
 make up
 make up for sth
 make up to sb
 make with sth

mean /miːn/
mean | meant | meant
- to express or represent something such as an idea, thought, or fact: 
    What does this word mean?
    These figures mean that almost six percent of the working population is unemployed.
    What do you mean by that remark?
    She's kind of strange though. Do you know what I mean?
    "They all showed up." "You mean the entire family?"
- used to add emphasis to what you are saying: 
    I want you home by midnight. And I mean midnight.
    Give it back now! I mean it.
- to have a particular result: 
    Lower costs mean lower prices.
    Advances in electronics mean that the technology is already available.
    If we want to catch the 7.30 train, that will mean leaving the house at 6.00.
- to intend: 
    I'm sorry if I offended you - I didn't mean any harm.
    The books with large print are meant for partially sighted readers.
    I've been meaning to call you all week.
    Do you think she meant to say 9 a.m. instead of 9 p.m.?
    They didn't mean for her to read the letter.
- to be intended to: 
    These batteries are meant to last for a year.
    This exercise isn't meant to be difficult.
    We were meant to have gone away this week, but Debbie's ill so we couldn't go.
    You are meant to rub the medicine on the affected area, not swallow it.
- to have an important emotional effect on someone: 
    It wasn't a valuable picture but it meant a lot to me.
    Possessions mean nothing to him.
- not willing to give or share things, especially money: 
    He's too mean to buy her a ring.
    My landlord's very mean with the heating - it's only on for two hours each day.
- unkind or unpleasant: 
    Stop being so mean to me!
    She just said it to be mean.
- frightening and likely to become violent: 
    a mean and angry mob
    a mean-looking youth
- very good: 
    She's a mean piano player.
    She plays a mean piano (= she plays very well).
- poor, dirty, and of bad quality: 
    He was born in the mean streets of Detroit in 1945.
- a mean number is an average number: 
    a mean value
    Their mean weight was 76.4 kilos.
- the result you get by adding two or more amounts together and dividing the total by the number of amounts: 
    The mean of 5, 4, 10, and 15 is 8.5.
- a quality or way of doing something that is in the middle of two completely different qualities or ways of doing something: 
    We need to find a mean between test questions that are too difficult and those that are too easy.
idioms:
 be meant for each other
 I mean
 mean business
 mean well
 (do you) see what I mean?
 what do you mean?
 no mean sth
 no mean achievement/feat

play /pleɪ/
- When you play, especially as a child, you spend time doing an enjoyable and/or entertaining activity: 
    The children spent the afternoon playing with their new toys.
    My daughter used to play with the kids next door.
- to take part in a game or other organized activity: 
    Do you want to play cards/football (with us)?
    Irene won't be able to play in the tennis match on Saturday.
    Which team do you play for?
    Luke plays centre-forward (= plays in that position within the team).
- to compete against a person or team in a game: 
    Who are the Giants playing next week?
- to hit or kick a ball in a game: 
    He played the ball back to the goalkeeper.
    A good pool player takes time deciding which shot to play.
- (in a card game) to choose a card from the ones you are holding and put it down on the table: 
    She played the ace of spades.
- to perform an entertainment or a particular character in a play, film, etc.: 
    Scottish Opera played to full houses every night.
    I didn't realize that "Macbeth" was playing (= being performed) at the festival.
    In the movie version, Branagh played the hero.
- to behave or pretend in a particular way, especially in order to produce a particular effect or result: 
    to play dead/dumb
    Would you mind playing host (= entertaining the guests)?
- to deceive someone to make them laugh or in order to get an advantage over them: 
    She loves playing practical jokes on her friends.
- to help to achieve something: 
    My thanks to everyone who has played a part in saving the hospital.
- to perform music on an instrument or instruments: 
    He learned to play the clarinet at the age of ten.
    Play us a song!/Play a song for us!
    On Radio London they play African and South American music as well as rock and pop.
    They could hear a jazz band playing in the distance.
- to (cause a machine to) produce sound or a picture: 
    Play the last few minutes of the video again.
- to direct or be directed over or onto something: 
    Firefighters played their hoses onto the base of the fire.
    A fountain was playing (= sending out water) in the courtyard outside.
- (of something you see, such as light) to move quickly or be seen for a short time: 
    A smile played across/over/on his lips.
- to risk money, especially on the results of races or business deals, hoping to win more money: 
    He plays the horses/the stock market.
- a piece of writing that is intended to be acted in a theatre or on radio or television: 
    a radio play
    "Did you see the play (= the performance of the play) on Thursday?" "No, I went on Wednesday night."
- the activity of taking part in a sport or a game: 
    Rain stopped play during the final of the National Tennis Championship.
- a plan or a small set of actions in a sport: 
    The new pitcher made a great play on that throw to first base.
- If a ball is in/out of play, it is/is not in a position where it can be hit, kicked, or thrown: 
    The ball had gone out of play.
    She managed to keep the ball in play.
- activity that is not serious but done for enjoyment, especially when children enjoy themselves with toys and games: 
    The kids don't get much time for play in the evenings.
    We watched the children at play in the park.
- movement: 
    the play of moonlight across the water
    the play of emotion across/on his face
- the fact that a rope or a structure is free to move, especially a small distance: 
    Aircraft wings are designed to have a certain amount of play in them.
idioms:
 be playing at sth
 go play with yourself!
 have sth to play with
 play sb at their own game
 play your cards right
 play (sth) by ear
 play it by ear
 play (merry) hell with sth
 play (it) safe
 play a joke/trick on sb
 play ball
 play both ends against the middle
 play fair
 play footsie
 play for time
 play games
 play God
 play hard to get
 play hardball
 play it cool
 play possum
 play second fiddle
 play silly buggers
 play the field
 play the game
 play the system
 play to the gallery
 play to the whistle
 come into play
 give/allow sth full play
 make a play for sth/sb
 play on words
phrasal verbs:
 play along
 play around
 play around with sth
 play at sth
 play sth back
 play sth down
 play off
 play sb/sth off against sb/sth
 play on/upon sth
 play sth out
 play itself out
 play out
 play sth up
 play (sb) up
 play up
 play up to sb
 play with sth
 play with yourself

hate /heɪt/
- to dislike someone or something very much: 
    Kelly hates her teacher.
    She hated the cold, dark days of winter.
    I hate it when you do that.
    I have always hated speaking in public.
    I hate him telling me what do to all the time.
    I hate (= do not want) to interrupt, but it's time we left.
    I'd hate (= would not like) you to think I didn't appreciate what you'd done.
- an extremely strong dislike: 
    She gave him a look of pure hate.
    The feelings of hate grew stronger every day.
    One of my pet hates (= one of the main things I dislike) is people who use your name all the while when they're speaking to you.
idioms:
 hate sb's guts
phrasal verbs:
 hate on sb

ago /əˈɡəʊ/
- back in time from the present: 
    He left the house over an hour ago.
    The dinosaurs died out 65 million years ago.
    Long ago/A long time ago, there lived a girl called Cinderella.

beautiful /ˈbjuː.tɪ.fəl/
- very attractive: 
    a beautiful woman
    breathtakingly beautiful scenery
    She was wearing a beautiful dress.
- very pleasant: 
    a beautiful piece of music
    beautiful weather
- very kind: 
    You did a beautiful thing in helping those poor children.
idioms:
 the beautiful game
 the beautiful people

fact /fækt/
- something that is known to have happened or to exist, especially something for which proof exists, or about which there is information: 
    No decision will be made until we know all the facts.
    I don't know all the facts about the case.
    I'm not angry that you took my car - it's just the fact that you didn't ask me first.
    He knew for a fact that Natalie was lying.
    It's sometimes hard to separate fact from fiction.
- used to add emphasis to what you are saying, or to show that it is the opposite of or different from what went before: 
    I don't work. In fact, I've never had a job.
    "Have you always lived here?" "As a matter of fact (= the truth is) I've only lived here for the last three years."
- something unpleasant that cannot be avoided: 
    Going bald is just a fact of life.
- exact detailed information: 
    We are getting some facts and figures together and we will then have a full board meeting.
- details about sexual activity and the way that babies are born

crazy /ˈkreɪ.zi/
- stupid or not reasonable: 
    It's a crazy idea.
    You're crazy to buy a house without seeing it.
- mentally ill: 
    I seriously think she'll go crazy if she doesn't have a holiday soon.
- annoyed or angry: 
    The constant noise drove me crazy (= made me become angry).
- a person who is crazy: 
    There are a lot of crazies out there.
idioms:
 be crazy about sb/sth
 like crazy

party /ˈpɑː.ti/
- a social event at which a group of people meet to talk, eat, drink, dance, etc., often in order to celebrate a special occasion: 
    a birthday party
    a farewell party
    a dinner party (= a small, sometimes formal party where a meal is eaten)
    a fancy-dress (US costume) party (= a party where people wear clothes that make them look like someone or something else)
    Peter has/gives/throws really wild parties.
- an organization of people with particular political beliefs that competes in elections to try to win positions in local or national government: 
    the Democratic Party
    the Green party
    the Conservative party
    The party has/have just elected a new leader.
    He was elected as party leader in 2011.
    They contacted party members from across the nation to ask for their support.
- a group of people who are involved in an activity together, especially a visit: 
    a party of tourists
    Most museums give a discount to school parties.
- one of the people or groups of people involved in an official argument, arrangement, or similar situation: 
    The UN called on all parties in the conflict to take a positive stance towards the new peace initiative.
    It's often difficult to establish who the guilty party is following a traffic accident.
- to enjoy yourself by drinking and dancing, especially at a party: 
    Let's party!
    They partied till dawn.
idioms:
 be (a) party to sth
 bring sth to the party

sit /sɪt/
sit | present participle sitting | past tense and past participle sat
- to (cause someone to) be in a position in which the lower part of the body is resting on a seat or other type of support, with the upper part of the body vertical: 
    to sit at a table/desk
    to sit in an armchair
    to sit on a chair/a horse/the ground
    He came and sat (down) next to me.
    Sit yourself down and have a nice cool drink.
    The child's father sat her (down) on a chair.
- to be a model for a painter, photographer, etc.: 
    Monet's wife sat for him many times.
- (of an animal such as a dog) to move into a position with its back legs bent and its tail end on the ground: 
    We're trying to train our dog to sit.
- If a bird sits on its eggs, it covers them with its body to keep them warm before they hatch.
- to stay in one place for a long time and not be used: 
    The encyclopedia sits on my shelf at home, gathering dust.
- to be in a particular position: 
    The town sits at/in the bottom of a valley.
- (of clothes) to fit someone in a particular way: 
    That coat sits very well on you.
- to hold an official meeting of a committee, court, etc.: 
    The court will sit tomorrow morning.
    The committee sat to hear the arguments for and against the plan.
- to be a member of an official group: 
    I'm going to be sitting on the committee for one more year.
    All of the federal judges currently sitting (= in office) in Maryland hail from Baltimore.
- to take an exam: 
    After I've sat my exams, I'm going on holiday.
    I sat for my exams today.
- to babysit: 
    I'm sitting my sister's kids this Saturday.
idioms:
 be sitting pretty
 sit at the feet of sb
 sit in judgment on/over sb
 sit on your arse
 sit on sb's stomach
 sit on the fence
 sit right/well (with sb)
 sit tight
phrasal verbs:
 sit around
 sit back
 sit by
 sit down
 sit down and do sth
 sit in
 sit in for sb
 sit on sth
 sit on sb
 sit sth out
 sit round
 sit through sth
 sit under sb
 sit (sb) up
 sit up

open /ˈəʊ.pən/
- not closed or fastened: 
    an open door/window
    An open suitcase lay on her bed.
    You left the container open.
    Someone had left the window wide (= completely) open.
    He had several nasty open wounds (= those which had not begun to heal).
- ready to be used or ready to provide a service: 
    The supermarket is open till 8.00 p.m. 
    The road is open now, but it is often blocked by snow in the winter.
    The new hospital was declared open by the mayor.
- not closed in or covered: 
    It's not a good idea to camp in the middle of an open field (= one which is not covered with trees, bushes, etc.).
    Suddenly we had left the city behind and were out in open country.
    The survivors were adrift on the open sea (= far from land).
- If a computer document or program is open, it is ready to be read or used: 
    Make sure you have both files open at the same time.
- available; not limited: 
    There are still several possibilities open to you.
    The competition is open to anyone over the age of 16.
    Is the library open to the general public?
    Their whole attitude to these negotiations is open to criticism (= can be criticized).
    I'd like to think I'm open to (= willing to consider) any reasonable suggestion.
    An accident would lay the whole issue of safety open (= cause it to be considered).
- not secret: 
    There has been open hostility between them ever since they had that argument last summer.
- honest and not trying to keep things secret: 
    He's very open about his weaknesses.
    I wish you'd be more open with me, and tell me what you're feeling.
    She has an honest, open face.
- not decided or certain: 
    We don't have to make a firm decision yet. Let's leave it open.
    We can leave our offer open for another week, but we have to have your decision by then.
    I want to keep my options open, so I'm not committing myself yet.
- An open question can be answered in many different ways, and not with just "yes" or "no" or by choosing one of a number of fixed answers: 
    Ask an open question along the lines of "What do you think/feel about this?"
    The interviewer should ask open and probing questions.
- to (cause to) begin: 
    I would like to open my talk by giving a brief background to the subject.
    I'm going to open an account with another bank.
    The Olympic Games open tomorrow.
    A new radio station is due to open (up) next month.
    The film opens (= will be shown for the first time) in New York and Los Angeles next week.
- to move something to a position that is not closed, or to make something change to a position that is not closed: 
    Could you open the window, please?
    You can open your eyes now - here's your present.
    The flowers open (out) in the morning but close again in the afternoon.
    From the kitchen there is a door that opens (out) into the garden.
    That door opens (out) onto the patio.
    "Open up (= open the door) - it's the police!" shouted the police officer, banging on the door.
- to remove or separate part of a container or parcel so that you can see or use what it contains: 
    Don't open a new bottle just for me.
    I couldn't wait to open the letter.
- If a shop or office opens at a particular time of day, it starts to do business at that time: 
    The coffee shop opens at ten o'clock.
    He opens (up) his coffee shop at ten o'clock.
- If someone, usually someone important, opens a building, event, etc., they officially say that it is ready to be used or to start operating: 
    The new hospital will be officially opened by the mayor on Tuesday.
- to make something available: 
    This research opens (up) the possibility of being able to find a cure for the disease.
    The country is planning to open (up) its economy to foreign investment.
- If you open a computer document or program, you make it ready to read or use: 
    To open a new document, click "File" and then click "New".
    Click the desktop icon to open the Cambridge Advanced Learner's Dictionary.
- somewhere outside, rather than in a building: 
    It's good to be (out) in the open after being cooped up in an office all day.
- to tell people information that was secret: 
    It's time this issue was brought out into the open.
idioms:
 the earth/ground/floor opens
 open sb's eyes
 open your heart to someone
 open your mouth
 open the door to sth
 greet/welcome sb with open arms
phrasal verbs:
 open sth out/up
 open (sth) up
 open sth up
 open sb up
 open up

afraid /əˈfreɪd/
- feeling fear, or feeling worry about the possible results of a particular situation: 
    He was/felt suddenly afraid.
    I've always been afraid of flying/heights/spiders.
    She was afraid for her children (= feared that they might be hurt).
    Don't be afraid to say what you think.
    She was afraid (that) he might be upset if she told him.
- used to politely introduce bad news or disagreement: 
    This is your room - it's rather small, I'm afraid.
    I don't agree at all, I'm afraid.
    I'm afraid you've completely misunderstood the question.
    I'm afraid (that) we can't come this evening after all.
    "Was she impressed with our work?" "I'm afraid not (= no)."
    "Does this mean I've got to leave?" "I'm afraid so." (= Yes.)

between /bɪˈtwiːn/
- in or into the space that separates two places, people, or objects: 
    The town lies halfway between Rome and Florence.
    Standing between the two adults was a small child.
    She squeezed between the parked cars and ran out into the road.
    There were two houses with a narrow path in between.
- If something is between two amounts, it is greater than the first amount but smaller than the second: 
    She weighs between 55 and 60 kilograms.
    The competition is open to children between six and twelve years of age.
    The room was either extremely cold or hot, never anything in between (= in the middle).
- in the period of time that separates two different times or events: 
    You shouldn't eat between meals.
    There is a break of ten minutes between classes.
    The office is closed for lunch between 12.30 and 1.30.
    In between sobs, he managed to tell them what had happened.
    He visits his parents every month and sometimes in between.
- among two or more people or things: 
    The money was divided equally between several worthy causes.
    We drank two bottles of wine between the four of us.
    Trade between the two countries (= their trade with each other) has increased sharply in the past year.
    There is a great deal of similarity between Caroline and her mother (= they are very similar).
- A discussion, argument, or game between two or more people or groups of people involves both people or groups: 
    The negotiations between the union and management have broken down.
    There has always been a fierce rivalry between the two schools.
    Tonight's game is between the New Orleans Saints and the St. Louis Rams.
- If you choose between two things, you choose one thing or the other: 
    You'll have to choose between a holiday or a new washing machine.
    She was torn between loyalty to her father and love for her husband (= she could not decide which one to support).
- connecting two or more places, things, or people: 
    There is a regular train service between Glasgow and Edinburgh.
    The survey shows a link between asthma and air pollution.
- from one place to another: 
    He commutes daily between Baltimore and Washington, D.C.
- separating two places or things: 
    The wall between East and West Berlin came down in 1989.
    The report states that the gap between the rich and the poor has increased dramatically over the past decade.
idioms:
 (in) between times
 (just) between you and me

important /ɪmˈpɔː.tənt/
- necessary or of great value: 
    I think his career is more important to him than I am.
    It's important for children to learn to get on with each other.
    The important thing is to keep the heat low or the sugar will burn.
    He's not amazingly handsome, but he's nice and that's more important.
- having great effect or influence: 
    He was one of the most important writers of that period.
    an important person/decision

rest /rest/
- to (cause someone or something to) stop doing a particular activity or stop being active for a period of time in order to relax and get back your strength: 
    The doctor told him that he should rest for a few days.
    He looked away from the computer screen to rest his eyes.
    She promised that she would not rest (= would not stop looking) until the murderer of her son was caught and imprisoned.
- to be an actor who does not have any work: 
    Over 90 percent of professional actors are resting at any given time.
- said by lawyers in a law court when they have finished the explanation of their case
- to lie or lean on something, or to put something on something else so that its weight is supported: 
    She rested her head on my shoulder.
    The bicycle was resting against the wall.
- to remain in a particular state or place: 
    We cannot allow the matter to rest here (= to remain as it is)- further action has to be taken.
- the other things, people, or parts that remain or that have not been mentioned: 
    I've got two bright students, but the rest are average.
    I'll keep a third of the money and the rest is for you.
    Do you have anything planned for the rest of the day?
- a period of time in which you relax, do not do anything active, or sleep: 
    After they had carried the piano up the stairs, they stopped for a rest.
    The doctor prescribed some pills and told her to get/have a week's rest.
- a period of silence between musical notes, or a symbol that represents this: 
    a minim rest
- not doing anything active, or not moving: 
    Her heartbeat is only 55 at rest.
- used as a polite way to say that someone is dead: 
    Your father was a very troubled man, but he's at rest now.
- to stop, usually in a particular place: 
    The car hit the kerb, rolled over and came to rest in a ditch.
- an object that supports the weight of something: 
    I used a pile of books as a rest for my telescope.
idioms:
 let sth rest
 rest easy
 I rest my case
 rest in peace
 rest on your laurels
 (and) all the rest
 for the rest
 give it a rest
 the rest is history
phrasal verbs:
 rest on sb/sth
 rest on/upon sth
 rest on/upon sb/sth
 rest up
 rest with sb
 rest with sb/sth

fun /fʌn/
- pleasure, enjoyment, or entertainment: 
    Have fun (= enjoy yourself)!
    Having fun (= are you enjoying yourself)?
    I really enjoyed your party - it was such good fun.
    She's great fun to be with.
    Mark was ill for most of the holiday so that took all the fun out of it.
    It's no fun/not much fun (= not enjoyable) having to work on Saturdays.
    a fun-loving girl
    "We're going on a picnic this weekend." "What fun (= how enjoyable)!"
    The relationship was never going to work, but it was fun while it lasted.
- for pleasure: 
    I ran but just for fun.
- to make a joke about someone or something in a way that is not kind: 
    The other children were always making fun of him because he was fat and wore glasses.
- behaviour or activities that are not serious; games or jokes: 
    The children are always full of fun.
    I didn't mean to upset her - it was just a bit of fun.
    I didn't mean what I said, it was only in fun (= a joke).
- enjoyable: 
    There are lots of fun things to do here.
idioms:
 have fun and games
 not be all fun and games

kid /kɪd/
- a child: 
    He took the kids to the park while I was working.
- a young person: 
    He was only 16, just a kid really.
    What's up, kid?
- someone's younger sister or brother
- to be very happy and excited about the things around you, and often react to them in a way that is silly and not controlled: 
    You should have seen him when they arrived. He was like a kid in a candy store.
- a young goat
- very soft leather made from the skin of a young goat: 
    kid gloves
- to say something as a joke, often making someone believe something that is not true: 
    Oh no, I forgot your birthday! Hey, just/only kidding!
    You won first prize? You're kidding! (= I'm really surprised.)
    I'm just kidding you!
- to believe something that is not true, usually because you want it to be true: 
    He says there's a good chance she'll come back to him but I think he's kidding himself.
idioms:
 no kidding
 you have (got) to be kidding
 handle/treat sb with kid gloves
phrasal verbs:
 kid around

glad /ɡlæd/
glad | gladder | gladdest
- pleased and happy: 
    We were glad about her success.
    I'm glad (that) you came.
    I'm glad to know the parcel arrived safely.
    I'd be (only too) glad to help you.
    We'd be glad of the chance to meet her.
idioms:
 give sb the glad eye

everyone /ˈev.ri.wʌn/
- every person: 
    Would everyone who wishes to attend the dinner let me know by Friday afternoon?
    Everyone has their own ideas about the best way to bring up children.
    I've received replies from everybody but Jane.
    Do you agree with the principle that everyone should pay something towards the cost of health care?
    Everyone knows who stole it, but they're all afraid to tell anyone.
    Everyone involved in the accident has been questioned by the police.
    Goodbye, everybody - I'll see you next week.
    I'm sorry, but you'll just have to wait your turn like everybody else.

day /deɪ/
- a period of 24 hours, especially from twelve o'clock one night to twelve o'clock the next night: 
    January has 31 days.
    the days of the week
    He runs five miles every day.
    It took us almost a day to get here.
    I saw him the day before yesterday.
    We leave the day after tomorrow.
    He was last seen alive five days ago.
    They haven't been seen for days (= for several days).
    I'll be seeing Pat in a few days/in a few days' time.
    How's your day been? (= Have you enjoyed today?)
    Have a nice day!
    I must get some sleep - I've got a big day (= an important day) tomorrow.
- used to refer to the period in 24 hours when it is naturally light: 
    a bright sunny day
    It rained all day.
    These animals sleep during the day and hunt at night.
- the time that you usually spend at work or at school: 
    a normal working day
    I work a seven-hour day.
    We're having to work a six-day week to cope with demand.
- a day when you do not have to work or do something that you normally do: 
    I won't be in on Thursday - it's my day off.
    She's taking three days off next week.
- a few days ago: 
    Didn't I see you in the post office the other day?
- used to talk about the present time, in comparison with the past: 
    Vegetarianism is very popular these days.
- in the past: 
    In those days people used to write a lot more letters.
- very soon, especially within the next few days: 
    The baby's due any day now.
- when it is naturally light: 
    I prefer travelling by day.
- repeatedly, every day: 
    The same problems keep coming up day after day.
- all the time: 
    You can hear the traffic from your room day and night.
- every day, or more and more as each day passes: 
    Day by day he became weaker.
- If something changes (from) day to day, it changes often: 
    The symptoms of the disease change from day to day.
- before each day happens: 
    I never know what I’ll be doing from one day to the next.
- a period in history: 
    How did people communicate in the days before email?
- up to and including the present moment: 
    To this day nobody knows what happened to him.
idioms:
 all in a day's work
 the best/happiest days of your life
 day in day out
 sb's/sth's days are numbered
 have had its/your day
 have your day in court
 in all my (born) days
 in my day
 in this day and age
 make sb's day
 not be sb's day
 the old days
 one of these days
 one of those days
 one/some day
 take it one day at a time/take each day as it comes
 that'll be the day
 those were the days
 to the day

sister /ˈsɪs.tər/
- a girl or woman who has the same parents as another person: 
    Sophie and Emily are sisters.
    Emily is Sophie's younger/little/older/big sister.
- a girl or woman who treats you in the kind way that a sister would: 
    Lynn's such a good friend - she's like a sister to me.
- a woman who shares an interest with you, especially that of improving women's rights: 
    "We must continue the fight, sisters!"
- used to address a woman: 
    OK, sister, move it!
- a female member of a religious group, especially a nun: 
    Sister Bernadette
    God bless you, Sister.
- a female nurse who is in charge of a department of a hospital: 
    The sister told us that visiting hours were over.
    Excuse me, Sister, could I have some water?
- belonging to a pair or group of similar and related things, such as businesses, usually owned or operated by the same person or organization: 
    our sister company in Australia
    the US battleship Missouri and her sister ship, the Wisconsin
idioms:
 sister from another mister
 sister under the skin

minute /ˈmɪn.ɪt/
- one of the 60 parts that an hour is divided into, consisting of 60 seconds: 
    a 20-minute bus ride
    It takes me 20 minutes to get to work.
    The train leaves at three minutes to eight, so we'd better get there a few minutes before then.
- used in spoken English to mean a very short time: 
    Hang on/Wait a minute - I just have to get my bag.
    Just a minute - I'll be with you when I've finished this.
    I won't be a minute (= I will be ready soon).
    When you've got a minute, I'd like a brief word with you.
- the written record of what was said at a meeting: 
    Could you take/do (= write) the minutes, Daniel?
    The minutes of the last meeting were approved unanimously (= everyone agreed that they were correct).
- an official message from one person to another in an organization: 
    I've just received a minute from Clark authorizing the purchase of six more computers.
- any of the 60 parts that the degrees of any angle are divided into
- to make a written record of what is said at a meeting: 
    The chairman is minuted as having said that profits had fallen to an all-time low.
- extremely small: 
    a minute amount/quantity
    I've never seen a man with such tiny hands - they're minute!
    The documentary showed an eye operation in minute detail (= showing every small detail).
idioms:
 the minute (that)
 not for one minute
 this minute
 up-to-the-minute

everybody /ˈev.riˌbɒd.i/
- → 
everyone 

bit /bɪt/
- a small piece or amount of something: 
    Would you like a bit of chocolate?
    The glass smashed into little bits.
    There were bits of paper all over the floor.
    She tries to do a bit of exercise every day.
    I don't understand this bit.
- a short distance or period of time: 
    I'm just going out for a bit. See you later.
    Can you move up a bit?
- a slight but not serious amount or type of something: 
    Maria's put on a bit of weight, hasn't she?
    It's a bit of a nuisance.
- slightly: 
    The dress is a bit too big for me.
    That was a bit silly, wasn't it?
    I'm a bit nervous.
    I was hoping there'd be some food - I'm a bit hungry.
    Would you like a bit more cake?
    It's a bit like a Swiss chalet.
- very: 
    Blimey, it's a bit cold!
    And she didn't invite him? That was a bit mean!
- gradually: 
    I saved up the money bit by bit.
- not in any way: 
    She wasn't a bit worried about the test.
    "Are you getting tired?" "Not a bit."
- a lot: 
    They have quite a bit of money.
- into small pieces: 
    The car was blown to bits.
    It just fell to bits in my hands.
- very much: 
    I love my son to bits.
- a piece of metal put in a horse's mouth to allow the person riding it to control its movements
- a unit of information in a computer that must be either 0 or 1: 
    a 32-bit computer (= a computer that processes 32 bits of information at a time)
- a coin representing a small amount of money: 
    a threepenny/sixpenny bit
- an amount of money that is equal to 12 1/2 cents, usually used in the expression "two bits," or 25 cents
- the part of a tool used for cutting or drilling (= making holes)
- past simple of bite
idioms:
 be a bit much
 be a bit of all right
 a bit of fluff/stuff/skirt
 a bit of rough
 a bit on the side
 get the bit between your teeth
 not a bit of it
 be in bits
 bits and pieces

couple /ˈkʌp.əl/
- two or a few things that are similar or the same, or two or a few people who are in some way connected: 
    The doctor said my leg should be better in a couple of days.
    A couple of people objected to the proposal, but the vast majority approved of it.
    We'll have to wait another couple of hours for the paint to dry.
    She'll be retiring in a couple more years.
    The weather's been terrible for the last couple of days.
    Many economists expect unemployment to fall over the next couple of months.
    I'm sorry I didn't call you, but I've been very busy over the past couple of weeks.
- two people who are married or in a romantic or sexual relationship, or two people who are together for a particular purpose: 
    a married couple
    An elderly couple live (US lives) next door.
    Should the government do more to help young couples buy their own homes?
    The couple skated spectacularly throughout the competition.
- to join or combine: 
    The sleeping car and restaurant car were coupled together.
    High inflation coupled with low output spells disaster for the government in the election.
- When two people or two animals couple, they have sex.

either /ˈaɪ.ðər/
- used in negative sentences instead of "also" or "too": 
    I don't eat meat and my husband doesn't either.
    "I've never been to the States." "I haven't either."
    They do really good food at that restaurant and it's not very expensive either.
- used when referring to a choice between two possibilities: 
    Either candidate would be ideal for the job.
    "Do you prefer pork or beef?" "I don't like either."
    "Would you like the metal or plastic one?" "Either will do."
    You can get there by train or bus - either way/in either case it'll take an hour.
    We can either eat now or after the show - it's up to you.
    Either you leave now or I call the police!
- both: 
    Unfortunately I was sitting at the table with smokers on either side of me.

daughter /ˈdɔː.tər/
- your female child: 
    Liz and Phil have a daughter and three sons.

under /ˈʌn.dər/
- in or to a position below or lower than something else, often so that one thing covers the other: 
    He hid under the bed.
    In AD 79 the city of Pompei was buried under a layer of ash seven metres deep.
    She put the thermometer under my tongue.
    She was holding a folder under her arm (= between her upper arm and the side of her body).
    They stood under a tree (= below its branches) to avoid getting wet.
- If a piece of land is under a particular type of plant, that plant is growing on the whole of that area: 
    The main fields are under wheat.
- If a book, article, or piece of information is under a particular title, you can find it below or following that title in a list, book, library, etc.: 
    Books on Ansel Adams will probably be under Art or Photography.
    Custard? That comes under Desserts.
- less than: 
    All items cost/are under a pound.
    The discount applies only to children under (the age of) ten (= younger than ten).
    If you get under 50 percent, you fail the exam.
- happening during, as a result of, or according to a particular situation, event, rule, etc.: 
    The work was completed under very difficult conditions.
    Now that the deadline is approaching we all feel under pressure.
    The chair broke under his weight (= because he was too heavy for it).
    Under the current rules, you need the agreement of at least 6 out of 10 committee members.
- in the process of being attacked, considered, discussed, etc.: 
    The town is under fire (= is being attacked) from the air.
    The proposals are now under consideration by the Board of Governors.
    The situation is still not under control.
- treated in the way mentioned: 
    The patient is being kept under heavy sedation.
    She'll have to go under anaesthetic for the operation.
    She's been under the doctor for a viral infection.
- to believe something, often wrongly: 
    He was under the mistaken belief that I was in charge.
- controlled or governed by a particular person, organization, or force: 
    He's a Colonel, with hundreds of soldiers under him (= obeying his orders).
    I wonder what Britain was like under the Romans (= during the time when the Romans controlled Britain).
    People born under (= during the period of) the zodiac sign Pisces are supposed to be dreamy and artistic.
- to have been ordered to do something: 
    They're under strict orders not to discuss the situation.
    He's under doctor's orders (= has been told by a doctor) to cut down on fatty food and to drink no alcohol for at least six months.
- using a particular name, especially one that is not your real name: 
    He writes under the name (of) John le Carré.
    For his own safety, he has to operate under a false name/an alias.
- below the surface of something: 
    Because I'm a bad swimmer, I often go under and swallow a lot of water.
- not enough or not done as well or as much as is necessary: 
    undercooked potatoes
    underprivileged children
    We're all overworked and underpaid.
    His boss says he's under-performing (= not doing as well as he should) at work.
- below: 
    underwear
    an underpass
idioms:
 be/fall under sb's influence/spell
 go under

break /breɪk/
break | broke | broken
- to (cause something to) separate suddenly or violently into two or more pieces, or to (cause something to) stop working by being damaged: 
    The dish fell to the floor and broke.
    Charles is always breaking things.
    She fell and broke her arm (= broke the bone in her arm).
    I dropped the vase and it broke into pieces.
    I think I've broken your phone.
    I picked it up and the handle broke off.
    We heard the sound of breaking glass.
- to destroy or end something, or to come to an end: 
    Eventually someone spoke, breaking the silence.
    She laughed and that broke the tension.
    The enemy were unable to break the code (= understand it and so make it useless).
    Outside workers were brought in in an attempt to break (= end) the strike.
- to do something better than the best known speed, time, number, etc. previously achieved: 
    She broke the record for the 5,000 metres.
- to fail to keep a law, rule, or promise: 
    He didn't know he was breaking the law (= doing something illegal).
    She broke her promise/word to me (= did not do what she promised she would).
- to (cause something to) divide into two or more parts or groups: 
    These enzymes break down food in the stomach (= cause food to separate into smaller pieces).
    I asked her to break her expenses down into food, travel and personal costs.
- to interrupt or to stop something for a short period: 
    We usually break for lunch at 12.30.
    I needed something to break the monotony of my typing job.
    The phone rang, breaking my concentration.
    They decided to break their journey in Singapore.
- to go somewhere or do something by force: 
    He threatened to break the door down (= enter using force).
    The horse tried to break free from its stable.
    In the storm the boat broke loose from its moorings.
    The thieves broke the safe open and stole the diamonds.
    The police broke up the fight (= ended it forcefully).
    She broke his grip and ran away.
- to lose your confidence, determination, or ability to control yourself, or to make someone do this: 
    He thought she would break under the strain.
    They tried to break his will (= make him lose his control) but he resisted.
- to become known or to make something become known: 
    When the scandal broke (= came to the public's attention), the CEO resigned immediately.
    It was the local newspaper that first broke the story (= told the public).
- (of waves) to reach and move over the beach, hit a cliff or wall, etc.: 
    A huge wave broke on/against the shore/over the boat.
- (of the weather) to change suddenly and usually become worse: 
    The forecast is for the hot weather to break today.
- (of a storm) to start suddenly: 
    We arrived just as a storm was breaking.
- When dawn or day breaks, the sun starts to appear in the sky early in the morning: 
    Dawn broke over the city.
- When a boy's voice breaks it begins to sound like a man's: 
    His voice broke when he was 13.
- If someone's voice breaks, it changes because of strong emotions: 
    Her voice was breaking with emotion as she pleaded for her child's return.
- (in tennis) to win a game in which another player is serving (= hitting the ball first): 
    Nadal broke Cilic's serve in the second set.
- If a football team breaks, it gets the ball in its own half and attacks quickly into the opposing team's half: 
    Blues broke quickly, catching Wolves on the back foot.
- an interruption: 
    Finally there was a break in the rain and we went out.
- the short period of advertisements between television programmes: 
    I'll make us a cup of tea in the next break.
- a short period of rest, when food or drink is sometimes eaten: 
    a coffee break
    a tea break
    a lunch/dinner break
    We'll take another break at 3.30.
    They worked through the night without a break.
    Do you usually take a morning/afternoon break?
- the regular time in the middle of the morning or afternoon, for school students to talk or play, and sometimes have food or drink: 
    We were talking about it at break.
- a time away from work or your regular activity, or a holiday: 
    Take a couple of weeks off - you need a break.
    How long is the Christmas break this year?
    We decided to have a short/spring/winter/weekend break in Paris.
    I'll read your report over (= during) the Christmas break.
    I need a break from typing.
- to allow someone some time away from their work or regular activities: 
    I babysit every Friday to give her a break.
- to stop criticizing or annoying someone, or behaving in an unpleasant way: 
    Give her a break - she's only a child and she didn't mean any harm.
- an opportunity for improving a situation, especially one that happens unexpectedly: 
    Her big break came when she was offered a role in a Spielberg movie.
- a place where something has broken: 
    There's a break in the pipe.
- the end of a relationship, connection, or way of doing something: 
    Their decision to not name their daughter Jane was a break with family tradition.
- to stop having a close relationship with someone, especially stop living with them , or to change a course of action that you have had for a long time: 
    You've been in your job for years - it's time you made a break.
    When a relationship ends, it's often best to make a clean/complete break (= suddenly and completely stop seeing each other).
- in tennis, a game won by the player who was not serving (= hitting the ball first): 
    Murray must get another break (of serve) to win.
- in snooker and billiards, the number of points that a player gets during one turn at hitting the balls
- in football, an occasion when a defending team gains possession of the ball in its own half and attacks quickly into the opposing team's half
- to escape from/towards somewhere or something, often by force: 
    A group of prisoners made a break from the jail a few years back.
    The cat made a break for the door.
    When he let go, I made a break for it (= escaped quickly).
- the time when the sun rises in the morning: 
    We set out at break of day.
idioms:
 break your back
 break sb's heart
 break bread
 break cover
 break down barriers
 break even
 break fresh/new ground
 break it up!
 break it/the news to sb
 break a leg
 break ranks
 break the back of sth
 break the bank
 break the ice
 break the mould
 break wind
 breaking and entering
phrasal verbs:
 break away
 break down
 break sb in
 break sth in
 break in/break into sth
 break in
 break into sth
 break (sth) off
 break out
 break through sth
 break sth up
 break (sth) up
 break up
 break with sth

door /dɔːr/
- a flat object that is used to close the entrance of something such as a room or building, or the entrance itself: 
    the front door
    the back door
    a car door
    a sliding door
    The door to his bedroom was locked.
    We could hear someone knocking at/on the door.
    Could you open/close/shut the door, please?
    She asked me to answer the door (= go and open it for someone).
- to work at the entrance of a building, collecting tickets or preventing particular people from entering
- used to refer to a house or other building: 
    Sam only lives a few doors (away/up/down) from us.
    The people next door (to us) (= living in the house next to us) aren't very friendly.
- outside in the open air
idioms:
 close/shut the door on sth
 open the door to sth
 shut/close the stable/barn door after the horse has bolted

set /set/
set | present participle setting | past tense and past participle set
- to put something in a particular place or position: 
    He set a vase of flowers on the table.
    The campsite is set in the middle of a pine forest.
    Our house is set back from the road.
- If a story, film, etc. is set in a particular time or place, the action in it happens in that time or place: 
    "West Side Story" is set in New York City in the late 1950s.
- to cause something or someone to be in the stated condition or situation: 
    It is believed that the building was set alight/ablaze/on fire deliberately.
    The new director has set a lot of changes in motion in our department.
    After years in prison, the men who had wrongfully been found guilty of the bombing were finally set free.
    If I've made a mistake, then it's up to me to set it right (= correct it).
- to cause someone or something to start doing something: 
    His remarks set me thinking.
    The thunderstorm set the radio crackling.
- to give someone work to do: 
    I was set to work dusting the bookshelves.
- to establish or decide something: 
    The school has been criticized for failing to set high standards for its students.
    The committee has set new limits on spending.
    Lewis has set a new world record.
    The court's decision has set a legal precedent.
    Parents should set a good example to their children.
    He's set himself the goal/target of making his first million by the time he's 30.
- to get something ready so that it comes into operation or can be used: 
    The heating is set to come on at 5 p.m.
    Have you set up the DVD player?
    I usually set my watch by the time on the computer.
    He set the alarm for 7 a.m.
    Will you set the table (= put plates, knives, forks, etc. on it ready for use), please?
- to put furniture and other things on a stage so that it represents the time and the place in which the action of a play, film, or television programme is going to happen: 
    During the interval the stage was set for the second act.
- to fix or make certain: 
    Has a date/time been set for the meeting yet?
    The price of the house has been set at €425,000.
- If a precious stone is set in/into a piece of jewellery, or a piece of jewellery is set with a precious stone, the stone is fixed firmly to the piece of jewellery: 
    a gold ring with a diamond set into it
    a brooch set with rubies and pearls
- When a doctor sets a broken bone, he or she puts it into the right position so that it will heal.
- When a broken bone sets, it heals in a particular position.
- If you have your hair set, you have it arranged while it is wet so that it will be in a particular style when it is dry.
- If you set a part of your body, you tighten the muscles around it in order to show that you are determined about something: 
    "I'm never going back to him," she said, setting her jaw firmly.
    His face was set in determination.
- If a liquid or soft material sets, it becomes firm or hard: 
    Leave the jelly in the fridge to set.
    Don't walk on the concrete until it has set.
- to give someone a piece of school work or homework to do: 
    My science teacher always sets a lot of homework.
    What books have been set for this term?
    What homework have you been set for the holidays?
- to give someone a particular task to do: 
    Harry set them to work painting the walls. 
    We set the kids the task of clearing the snow from the drive.
- to write or provide music for a poem or other words so that they can be sung: 
    poems set to music
- (of the sun, moon, or planets) to go down below the horizon (= the line at which the earth seems to join the sky): 
    We sat on the beach and watched the sun set.
    The setting sun cast long shadows across the lawn.
- a group of similar things that belong together in some way: 
    We bought Charles and Mandy a set of cutlery as a wedding present.
    I always keep a tool set in the back of my car.
    The doctor said that he hadn't seen this particular set of symptoms before.
    We need to establish a new set of priorities.
- a number of objects or pieces of equipment needed for a particular activity, especially playing a game: 
    a chess/train/chemistry set
- a group of repeated movements performed as part of a period of physical exercise: 
    I did three sets of 10 push-ups every night before bed.
    Sprint up the hill and jog down. Do three sets, then jog easy for 10 minutes. 
- In mathematics, a set is a group of objects with stated characteristics.
- a group of people who have similar interests and ways of living: 
    the fashionable set
    She's got in with a very arty set.
- the place where a film or play is performed or recorded, and the pictures, furniture, etc. that are used: 
    a movie set
    a stage set
    a set designer
    They first met on the set of "Star Wars".
- a part of a game of tennis or volleyball: 
    They won in straight sets (= they won every set).
- a musical performance that forms part of a concert, especially one of pop music or jazz: 
    The band's opening set lasted 45 minutes.
- the position in which you hold a part of your body: 
    I could tell from the set of his jaw that he was angry.
- the act of having your hair set: 
    a shampoo and set
- a television: 
    We need a new television set.
- ready and prepared: 
    Shall we go now - is everyone set?
    Is everything all set for the party?
    At the start of the race, the starter said "On your marks, get set, go".
    We were just getting set to leave when Ben said he had something important to tell us.
- likely or in a suitable condition: 
    He looks set to become world champion again this year.
- always the same, never changing: 
    My parents say I have to be home by a set time.
    The restaurant does a set lunch (= a meal which is offered at a fixed price, but with little or no choice about what you have to eat) on Sundays.
    The receptionist had a bright set smile on his face, but I could tell that he was bored.
    My father has very set opinions/views on the matter.
- a phrase in which the words are always used in the same order
- used to describe a book or writer that must be studied for a particular course: 
    The students are reading "Lord of the Flies" as one of their set books this year.
    Eventually, he became a set author in Australian schools.
idioms:
 not set the world on fire
 set the scene/stage
 be (dead) set against sth
 be set fair
 be set in your ways
 be set on/upon sth
phrasal verbs:
 set about sth
 set about sb
 set sb against sb
 set sth against sth
 set sth/sb apart
 set sth aside
 set sb back (sth)
 set sth/sb back
 set sth back
 set sth down
 set sb down
 set sth forth
 set in
 set off/out
 set sth off
 set sb off
 set sb/sth on sb
 set on/upon sb
 set out
 set sth out
 set to
 set sth up
 set sb up
 set sth/sb up
 set (sth) up
 set yourself up as sth

close /kləʊz/
- to (cause something to) change from being open to not being open: 
    Could you close the door/window please?
    Close your eyes - I've got a surprise for you.
- When a shop, restaurant, or public place closes, people cannot go into it: 
    The banks had closed (to customers) so I couldn't get any money out.
    The museum closes at 5.30.
    We can't get a drink! It's after closing time.
- to (cause something to) end: 
    The play closed with the tragic death of both hero and heroine.
    She closed the meeting with a short speech.
    The pound closed at (= was worth) $1.47 at the end of the day's trading.
- to (cause a business, organization, or business arrangement to) stop operating: 
    I closed that bank account when I came to London.
    The factory closed over ten years ago.
- to make a successful business arrangement with someone: 
    We closed a deal with a major supermarket.
- the end of something, or the time when you end it: 
    I tried to bring the conversation to a close.
    "Let's draw this meeting to a close, gentlemen," said the chairman.
- a road, usually with private houses, that vehicles can only enter from one end: 
    He lives at 83 Barker Close.
- having direct family connections or shared beliefs, support, and sympathy: 
    There weren't many people at the funeral - just close family/relatives.
    They're a worrying political party because of their close links/ties with terrorist groups.
    In those early months, there's a very close bond between mother and child.
    a close community
- People who are close know each other very well and like each other a lot, or who see and talk to each other a lot: 
    Mira is one of my closest friends.
    Her relationship isn't good with her father, but she's very close to her mother.
    My brother and I have become much closer over the years.
- looking at or listening to someone or something very carefully: 
    Police are paying close attention to the situation.
    Take a closer look at this photograph.
- unwilling to talk about things to other people: 
    He's so close about his past - it seems like he's hiding something.
- used to describe weather or air conditions in which it is difficult to breathe and it is uncomfortably warm: 
    Can I open the window? It's very close in here.
- not far in position or time: 
    Don't get too close to that dog, Rosie.
    I hate people standing too close to me.
    As Christmas gets closer, the shops get more and more crowded.
    Emma looked close to tears (= almost going to cry).
- near: 
    Shall we call in on Miranda? You know she lives quite close by.
- having only a small difference: 
    The election results were so close they had to vote again.
    He came second in the race, but it was very close.
    The youngest boys are so close in age they look like twins.
    Both children bear a very close resemblance to their father.
- almost: 
    I think there are close on three million unemployed at present.
idioms:
 close your eyes to sth
 close ranks
 close up shop
 close, but no cigar
 at close quarters/range
 be close to the bone
 be too close for comfort
 come close to blows
 that was close!
phrasal verbs:
 close (sth) down
 close in
 close sth off

easy /ˈiː.zi/
- needing little effort: 
    an easy exam
    Would a ten o'clock appointment be easier for you?
    It's easy to see why he's so popular.
    She's very easy to talk to.
    The easiest thing to do would be for us to take the train home.
    It isn't easy being a parent.
    Getting into the movie business is no easy matter.
    I don't trust that easy (= relaxed) charm of his.
    My car can do 250 kph, easy.
- comfortable or calm; free from worry, pain, etc.: 
    They both retired and went off to lead an easy life in the Bahamas.
    I don't feel easy about leaving him alone in the house all day.
    With the harvest finished, I was able to relax with an easy mind/conscience.
idioms:
 an easy touch
 (as) easy as pie/ABC/anything/falling off a log
 easier said than done
 the easiest thing in the world
 easy come, easy go
 easy does it!
 be easy game/meat
 easy on the eye/ear
 go easy
 I'm easy
 on easy street
 take it/things easy

doctor /ˈdɒk.tər/
- a person with a medical degree whose job is to treat people who are ill or hurt: 
    The doctor prescribed some medication.
    You should see a doctor about that cough.
    Good morning, Doctor Smith/Doctor.
- the place where a doctor works: 
    He went to the doctor's this morning for a check-up.
- a person who has the highest degree (= qualification) from a college or university
- to change a document in order to deceive people: 
    He was found to have provided the court with doctored evidence.
- to secretly put a harmful or poisonous substance into food or drink: 
    Bottles of lemonade doctored with rat poison were discovered in the kitchen.
- to remove the sexual organs of an animal in order to prevent it from producing young
idioms:
 just what the doctor ordered

far /fɑːr/
far | farther | farthest or further | furthest
- at, to, or from a great distance in space or time: 
    How far is it from Australia to New Zealand?
    Is the station far away?
    She doesn't live far from here.
    He felt lonely and far from home.
    One day, perhaps far in/into the future, you'll regret what you've done.
- used to say what you think is true, although you do not know all the facts: 
    He isn't coming today, as far as I know.
- used to say what your personal opinion is about something: 
    She can come whenever she likes, as far as I'm concerned.
- used to say what you have noticed or understood: 
    There's been no change, as far as I can tell.
- I certainly would not: 
    Far be it from me to tell you how to run your life.
- certainly not something: 
    The situation is far from clear.
- used to describe something that is almost the opposite of something else: 
    She insisted that, far from being easy, it would be a difficult period for all concerned.
- certainly not: 
    He's not handsome - far from it.
- from a large number of places: 
    People came from far and wide to see the house.
- to be willing to do something that is extreme: 
    It's good, but I wouldn't go so far as to say that it's great.
- until now: 
    So far we've made £32,000.
- used to say that an activity has gone well until now: 
    I've found a tin of beans. So far so good, but where is the tin opener?
- very much: 
    This car is far better than our old one.
    It cost far more (money) than I could afford.
    He loses his temper far too often.
    I'd far rather/sooner go to the theatre than watch a DVD.
- by a great amount: 
    They are by far the best students in the class.
- used to refer to something that is not near, or the part of something that is most distant from the centre or from you: 
    The station isn't far - we could easily walk there.
    The children ran to the far side/corner of the room.
- used to refer to political groups whose opinions are very extreme: 
    supporters of the far left
idioms:
 as far as it goes
 be a far cry from sth
 by far and away
 go far
 go too far

walk /wɔːk/
- to move along by putting one foot in front of the other, allowing each foot to touch the ground before lifting the next: 
    I walked home.
    A cat was walking along the top of the fence.
    He walks two miles to work every morning.
- to go with someone to a particular place, for example because you want to protect them from danger, or show them the way: 
    He offered to walk her home/to the station.
- to take an animal, especially a dog, for a walk: 
    She walks the dog for an hour every afternoon.
- someone who seems to be a human form of disaster, encyclopedia, etc.: 
    You broke another pair of glasses? You're just a walking disaster!
- to be allowed to leave a court after being found not guilty of a crime: 
    If police don't get the right evidence, he'll walk.
- in baseball, to receive four balls outside the hitting area and be allowed to go to first base, or to throw the ball outside the hitting area four times so that the batter is allowed to go to first base: 
    The first batters either missed or walked.
    He would have had a perfect game, except he walked a batter in the final inning.
- to pass or win something, such as an exam or game, easily: 
    She'll walk the interview - the job is practically hers already.
- a journey that you make by walking, often for enjoyment: 
    He went for/took a walk around the block, to get some air.
    They went on a ten-mile walk to raise money for charity.
    Every afternoon she takes her grandfather out for a walk.
- a path or route where people can walk for enjoyment: 
    Do you know any nice walks around here?
- a way of walking: 
    He has a strange waddling sort of walk.
- walking speed: 
    She slowed the horses to a walk.
- a journey that takes a short time, five minutes, ten minutes, etc. when you walk: 
    The school is only a five-minute walk away.
- in baseball, an occasion when a batter is allowed to go to first base after the pitcher has thrown the ball outside the hitting area four times
idioms:
 walk all over sb
 walk it
 walk on air
 walk on eggs/eggshells
 walk right into sth
 walk the walk
 a walk in the park
 walk of life
phrasal verbs:
 walk away
 walk away with sth
 walk back sth
 walk in on sb
 walk into sth
 walk off (somewhere)
 walk sth off
 walk off with sth
 walk out
 walk through sth
 walk sb through sth

need /niːd/
- to have to have something, or to want something very much: 
    Babies need constant care.
    The doctor said I needed an operation.
    I need to go to the toilet.
    Most people need to feel loved.
    I need you to help me choose an outfit.
    I badly need (= strongly want) a rest from all this.
    I don't need all this hassle.
- If you say that someone or something needs something else, you mean that they should have it, or would get an advantage from having it: 
    What you need is a nice hot bowl of soup.
    This room needs cleaning.
    She needs her hair washed.
- to have (to): 
    He needs to lose some weight.
    I need to do some shopping on my way home from work.
    There needs to be more effort from everyone.
    I don't think we need ask him.
    Nothing need be done about this till next week.
    "Need we take your mother?" "No, we needn't."
- there is no reason for someone or something to do a particular thing: 
    You needn't worry - I'm not going to mention it to anyone.
    It's a wonderful way of getting to see Italy, and it needn't cost very much.
- used, often when you are angry with someone, to say that they should not do a particular thing or that they have no right to do it: 
    He needn't think I'm driving him all the way there!
    You needn't laugh! It'll be your turn next!
- used to say either that someone did a particular thing although they did not have to, or that someone did not do it because they did not have to: 
    I gave her some extra money - I know I didn't need to but I thought it would be kind.
    "Did you ask Sophia to help?" "I didn't need to - I managed perfectly well on my own."
- it was not necessary for someone to have done a particular thing, although they did do it: 
    You needn't have washed all those dishes, you know - I'd have done them myself when I got home.
    You needn't have worried about the dinner - it was delicious!
- the state of having to have something that you do not have, especially something that you must have so that you can have a satisfactory life: 
    Are you in need of help?
    There's a growing need for cheap housing in the larger cities.
- the things that a person must have in order to have a satisfactory life: 
    Housing and education are basic needs.
    They don't have enough food to meet their needs.
- a feeling or state of strongly wanting something: 
    He seems to have a desperate need to be loved by everyone.
    I don't know about you but I'm in need of a drink.
    We have no need of your sympathy.
- not having enough money or food: 
    You just hope that the money goes to those who are most in need.
- the state of being necessary: 
    Help yourself to stationery as the need arises.
    If need/needs be (= if necessary), we can take a second car to fit everyone in.
    I don't think there's any need for all of us to attend the meeting.
- If there is no need to do something, it is not necessary or it is wrong: 
    There's no need to buy more food - there's plenty in the fridge.
    I understand why she was angry, but there was no need to be so nasty to him.
    There's no need to yell! Just calm down.
idioms:
 I need hardly do sth
 need you ask!
 need I say
 need I say more?
 need your head examined
 who needs...?

trouble /ˈtrʌb.əl/
- problems or difficulties: 
    The tax forms were complicated and I had a lot of trouble with them.
    Their problems seem to be over for the moment, but there could be more trouble ahead.
    The trouble started/began when my father came to live with us.
    Parents often have trouble finding good carers for their children.
    We started holding meetings by phone, as travelling in and out of the city became too much trouble.
    I should get it finished over the weekend without too much trouble.
    You'll only be storing up trouble for the future if you don't go to the dentist now.
    She thought her troubles would be over once she'd got divorced.
    His birthday is the least of my troubles at the moment - I don't even have enough money to pay the rent.
    Most of the current troubles stem from (= are caused by) our new computer system.
- a situation in which you experience problems, usually because of something you have done wrong or badly: 
    He's never been in trouble with his teachers before.
    She'll be in big trouble if she scratches Sam's car.
    He got into financial trouble after his divorce.
    I hope you won't get into trouble because of what I said to your dad.
    The camp is a great way of getting kids off the street and keeping them out of trouble.
    I hope I haven't landed you in trouble with your boss.
    The marriage ran into trouble because of her husband's heavy drinking.
    The company will be in serious/real trouble if we lose this contract.
    He's stayed out of trouble since he was released from jail last year.
- a characteristic of someone or something that is considered a disadvantage or problem: 
    The trouble with this carpet is that it gets dirty very easily.
    It's a brilliant idea. The only trouble is that we don't know how much it will cost.
    Ron's trouble is that he's too impatient.
- problems or difficulties caused by something failing to operate as it should: 
    The plane developed engine trouble shortly after take-off.
    They have a good reputation for building reliable trouble-free cars.
    Her knee trouble is expected to keep her out of the game for the rest of the season.
- problems in the form of arguments, fighting, or violence: 
    Listen, I don't want any trouble in here, so please just finish your drink and leave.
    My parents said we had to leave at the first sign of trouble.
    My little brother's always trying to stir up (= create) trouble between me and my boyfriend.
- slight problems or effort: 
    I didn't mean to cause you any trouble.
    "I'd love some more coffee, if it isn't too much trouble." "Oh, it's no trouble at all."
    I don't want to put you to any trouble (= create any work for you).
    If you took the trouble to listen to what I was saying, you'd know what I was talking about.
    They went to a lot of trouble (= made a lot of effort) for their dinner party, but half the guests didn't bother to turn up.
    It's annoying, but I don't think I'll go to the trouble of making an official complaint.
- to cause someone to be worried or nervous: 
    I asked her what was troubling her, but she didn't want to talk.
    Many of us are deeply troubled by the chairman's decision.
    It troubles me (that) you didn't discuss your problems with me earlier.
- to cause someone to have a problem or difficulties: 
    He has been troubled by a knee injury for most of the season.
- to cause someone a small amount of effort: 
    May I trouble you for (= please give me) some more wine, please?
    Could I trouble you to open that window? I can't reach it.
    Let's not trouble ourselves (= make the effort to think) about the details at the moment.
idioms:
 be asking for trouble
 get sb into trouble
 more trouble than it's worth
 spell trouble
 trouble and strife

mine /maɪn/
- the one(s) belonging to or connected with me: 
    "Whose bag is this?" "It's mine."
    Your son is the same age as mine.
    She's an old friend of mine.
    Mine is the silver car, the convertible.
- a hole or system of holes in the ground where substances such as coal, metal, and salt are removed: 
    a coal/salt/gold mine
    a mine shaft
    My grandfather used to work in (UK also down) the mines.
- a type of bomb put below the earth or in the sea that explodes when vehicles, ships, or people go over it: 
    He was killed when his tank ran over a mine.
    The US forces were clearing the surrounding area of mines.
- to dig coal or another substance out of the ground: 
    They're mining for salt.
    They mine a lot of copper around these parts.
- to place or hide mines in an area of land or sea: 
    The desert was heavily mined.
- to use special software to try to obtain new cryptocurrency (= digital currency produced by a public network rather than by a government): 
    Since 2009, the number of bitcoins mined has skyrocketed. 
- used in the past instead of "my" before nouns that begin with a vowel or h : 
    mine eyes
    mine host
idioms:
 a mine of information
 mine a rich seam of sth

though /ðəʊ/
- despite the fact that: 
    She hasn't called, even though she said she would.
- but: 
    They're coming next week, though I don't know which day.
- as if: 
    You look as though you've been running a marathon!
- despite this: 
    We went to high school together. I haven't seen her for years, though.

time /taɪm/
- the part of existence that is measured in minutes, days, years, etc., or this process considered as a whole: 
    He wants to spend more time with his family.
    Time passes so quickly when you're having fun.
    She grew more and more fascinated by the subject as time went on/by.
    The curtains have faded over/with time (= as years have gone past).
    You'll forget her in time (= in the future).
    Over the course of time (= as years have gone past), holes have formed in the rock.
    When Paula was ill, I took her some magazines to help her pass the time.
    If you'd taken more time with/over (= spent more time doing) this essay, you could have done it much better.
    It takes a long time (= many hours are needed) to get from London to Sydney.
    We'd save time on our journey (= it would be quicker) if we went by train.
    I only worked there for a short period of time.
    The kitchen clock is gaining/losing time (= is going fast/slow).
    My watch has never kept very good time (= been correct).
- continuously: 
    I wish you'd stop criticizing me all the time.
- very quickly or very soon: 
    The kids ate their dinner in no time.
    We'll be home in next to no time.
- If you say there is or that you have no time to lose, it means that you must do quickly whatever it is that you want to do: 
    Come on, there's no time to lose, we have to get home before John finds out.
- always: 
    I will love you for all time.
- that has ever lived or existed: 
    She's been called the greatest singer of all time.
- the system of recording hours used in different parts of the world: 
    Greenwich Mean Time
    daylight saving time
- an amount of time that you have available to do something: 
    I don't know how you find time to do all the things you do.
    I thought we'd give her a little more time (= allow her more time) to get the job done.
    I'd like to visit all the museums but time is short (= there is little time left).
- If you have time, you have enough time to do something: 
    We don't have much time before the train leaves.
    Do you have time for a quick drink after work?
    I'd like to learn to sail, but I don't have the time (= I am too busy).
    I don't have time to go to the shops today.
- to not make good use of the hours, etc. that you have available: 
    If you'd done your work instead of wasting time on your phone, you'd be finished by now.
- to not have enough hours, etc. available to finish something you are trying to do: 
    She ran out of time and didn't finish the last question.
- to not have enough minutes, etc. available: 
    I'd like to continue this discussion but we're all out of time.
- there are no more minutes, hours, etc. available: 
    OK, everyone, time's up for this week.
- a period of time added to the end of a football match because play was stopped during the game, usually to take care of players who were hurt: 
    His goal in the third minute of time added on sealed the match.
- a particular period of time for which something has been happening, or that is needed for something: 
    After a time, it became clear that nobody was interested in coming to the meetings.
    They stayed with us for a short time.
    That was the best restaurant I've been to for/in a long time (= a long period has gone past since I went to such a good restaurant).
    It was some time ago that I last heard from her.
    We're going on holiday in two weeks' time (= after two weeks have passed).
    During her time (= while she was) in office, the prime minister introduced a large number of changes.
    What do you like doing in your spare/free time (= when you are not working)?
- to stop work, in order to do something else: 
    I asked my boss if I could have some time off (from work) to go to the dentist.
- for a short period: 
    For a time, we all thought that Sheila and Frank would get married.
- for a fairly long period of time: 
    I've been doing yoga for some time.
- for a limited period: 
    Leave the ironing for the time being - I'll do it later.
- a particular point in the day, as expressed in hours and minutes or shown on a clock, or a particular point in time: 
    What time is it?
    "What's the time?" "It's ten o'clock."
    What time do you finishwork?
    Have you got the time? (= Do you know what time it is?)
    He's teaching his daughter to tell the time (= to recognize what time it is by looking at a clock).
    Did you find out the times of the trains to Kiev?
    The estimated time of arrival/departure of this flight is 11.15.
    Oh dear, is that the (right) time? (= is it really so late?)
    We always have dinner at the same time every day.
    I was exhausted by the time (= when) I got home.
    When would be a good time for me to call you?
    "What would be the best time of day for us to deliver the table?" "Oh, any time will be OK."
    Today's temperatures will be normal for the time of year (= will be as they are expected to be in this season).
    Just think, this time (= at the same particular point during) next week we'll be in Aruba.
    We regret that at the present time (US also at this time) we are unable to supply the products you ordered.
    The time is fast drawing near/approaching (= it will soon be the time) when we'll have to make a decision.
- at the particular point when something was thought of or done: 
    It seemed like a good idea at the time.
- If two things happen at the same time, they happen together: 
    We arrived at the same time.
- at a person's present age: 
    At his time of life, he ought to be taking things easy.
- a particular point of the day, year, etc. that is suitable for a particular activity, or at which something is expected to happen: 
    holiday time
    party time
    Put your toys away now - it's time for bed.
    It's time (that) I was leaving.
    Is it time (for us) to go home yet?
    This is not the time (= not a suitable moment) to be thinking about buying a house.
    This is no time (= not a suitable moment) to change your mind.
    I feel that the time has come (= now is a suitable moment) for me to move on.
    The repairs to the road were finished two weeks ahead of time (= sooner than was expected).
    Why is it that the buses never run on time (= make their journeys in the expected number of hours, etc.)?
    She's grown old before her time (= sooner than she might have been expected to have done).
- early enough: 
    I got home just in time - it's starting to rain.
    If we don't hurry up, we won't be in time to catch the train.
    We got there in plenty of time (= we arrived early) for the beginning of the game.
- happening or done at the particular moment that it was expected to happen or be done: 
    My parents go to the house right on time.
- earlier than a particular moment: 
    Let's meet for lunch. I'll call you ahead of time to decide exactly when and where.
- If it is about time/high time that someone did something, it should have been done sooner or a long time ago: 
    It's about time (that) the school improved its food service.
    It is high time for the critics to open their minds to a new approach.
- said when someone does something or something happens that you think should have been done or have happened much sooner: 
    "So Ben's finally found a job." "Yeah, it's about time."
- it is the most suitable moment to do something or for something to happen: 
    I haven't told him yet, but I will when the time is right.
    She felt the time was right to leave.
    The time is ripe for investing in new technology.
- an occasion when something happens, or the experience connected with it: 
    The last time we went to Paris, it rained every day.
    Every time/Each time I ask you to do something you say you're busy.
    They go swimming three or four times a week.
    There are times when I wish I didn't live where I do.
    The four-times champion (= the champion on four occasions in the past) was defeated in the second round.
    If I'd known at the time (= then) that she was his former wife, I'd never have said what I did.
    Sometimes I enjoy my English classes, but at other times I find them really boring.
    For the umpteenth/hundredth/thousandth time, (= I've told you on many occasions to) stop teasing your sister.
    Did you have a bad/good time (= an unpleasant/enjoyable experience) at the conference?
    She had an easy/hard time of it (= a comfortable/uncomfortable experience) with the birth of her second baby.
- sometimes, but not often: 
    From time to time I still think of her.
- again and again: 
    Time after time she gets involved in relationships with the wrong men.
- very often: 
    I've told you time and time again - look before you cross the road.
- continuously: 
    When you're at the airport, you should make sure you have your luggage with you at all times.
- at or during any particular point or moment in the day: 
    Only a certain number of people are allowed in the building at any one time.
    I'm sorry, but I'm too busy to help you now - I can only do one thing at a time.
- sometimes: 
    You can be really annoying at times, you know.
- ever: 
    Parking is not allowed here at any time.
- on many occasions: 
    The times I've told you, ask before you borrow my clothes.
- a period in history: 
    "A Tale of Two Cities" is set at the time of the French Revolution.
    In/During medieval times, women thought to be witches were burned at the stake.
    In times gone by, all crops were harvested by hand.
    Times were hard (= living conditions were not good) when I was a boy.
    He is widely regarded as one of the best writers of modern/our times (= the present or very recent past).
    I never thought it would happen in my time (= before I died).
    We sat and talked about old times (= things that had happened to us in the past.)
    Times have changed and many more women now have executive jobs than in the past.
- in the past: 
    At one time, George Eliot lived here.
- having new ideas, opinions, or ways of living long before most other people do
- If something is before your time, it happened or existed before you were born or were old enough to remember it: 
    I don't remember the Beatles - they were before my time.
- said to mean that there was a period in the past when something used to happen or be true: 
    Time was (when) you could buy a loaf of bread for sixpence.
- Your time in a race is the number of minutes, hours, etc. you take to complete it: 
    Her time for the marathon was just under three hours.
    He ran the 100 metres in record time.
- the number of beats in a bar of music, or the speed at which a piece of music is intended to be played: 
    This piece is written in 4/4 time.
    Small children often have difficulty singing in time with the music (= at the same speed at which the music is being played).
    It seemed to me as if the violins were playing out of time (= at a different speed from the other instruments playing the same piece of music).
    To beat time is to make a regular series of sounds at the same speed as a piece of music is played.
    Tapping your foot will help you to keep time (= to play the music at the correct speed).
- to spend a period of time in prison: 
    It's not always easy to find a job after you've done time.
- the particular point in the day at which people who are drinking in a bar in the UK have to finish their drinks and leave: 
    "Time, please!" called the landlord.
    Is it time already?
- to decide that something will happen at a particular time: 
    We timed our trip to coincide with my cousin's wedding.
- to arrange something so that it happens at the best possible time: 
    If you time your departure carefully, you should be able to miss the worst of the traffic.
    The girls' basketball team won the game with a perfectly timed shot (= one played at exactly the right moment), just before the buzzer.
- to measure how long it takes for something to happen or for someone to do something: 
    Will you time me to see how long it takes me to swim a length?
- the stated period of time during the year, day, etc.: 
    springtime
    Christmas-time
    daytime
    night-time
idioms:
 all the time in the world
 behind the times
 be pressed for time
 change with/keep up with/move with the times
 give sb a hard time
 give sb the time of day
 have a lot of time for sb
 have no time for sb
 have time to kill
 a matter/question of time
 there's a time and a place (for everything)
 there's no time like the present
 time and tide wait for no man
 time flies
 time hangs heavy
 time is money
 time is of the essence
 time is on sb's side
 the time is ripe
 the time of your life
 have time on your hands
 time stands still
 (only) time will tell
 time's a great healer

different /ˈdɪf.ər.ənt/
- not the same: 
    She seems to wear something different every day.
    He's different now that he's been to college.
    We're reading a different book this week.
    Emily is very/completely/entirely different from her sister.
    Emily and her sister are completely different.
    There are many different types/kinds of bacteria.
- used when you think someone or something is unusual or shows bad judgment: 
    What do I think of your purple shoes? Well, they're certainly different.

hospital /ˈhɒs.pɪ.təl/
- a place where people who are ill or injured are treated and taken care of by doctors and nurses: 
    a general/children's/maternity hospital
    hospital patients/staff
    I've got to go (in)to hospital (US to the hospital) to have an operation.
    She spent a week in hospital (US in the hospital) last year.

anybody /ˈen.iˌbɒd.i/
- → 
anyone 

alright /ɔːlˈraɪt/
- non-standard form of 
all right 

wedding /ˈwed.ɪŋ/
- a marriage ceremony and any celebrations such as a meal or a party that follow it: 
    a wedding cake/dress/invitation/present/reception
    Do you know the date of Caroline and Matthew's wedding?
    It was their 25th wedding anniversary last week.

shut /ʃʌt/
shut | present participle shutting | past tense and past participle shut
- to (cause to) close something: 
    Please shut the gate.
    I've got a surprise for you! Shut your eyes tightly and hold out your hand.
    Mary shut her book and put it down on the table.
    This window won't shut - it's jammed.
- to (cause to) stop operating or being in service, either temporarily or permanently: 
    The shops shut at eight o'clock on Wednesday evenings.
    It's such a shame they shut that factory (down).
- closed: 
    I suspected something was wrong when I noticed her curtains were still shut at lunchtime.
    The government ought to have opened the door to Japanese investment instead of slamming it shut.
idioms:
 shut the front door!
 shut your eyes to sth
 shut your mouth/face
 shut up shop
phrasal verbs:
 shut sb away
 shut sth away
 shut yourself away
 shut (sth) down
 shut sb/sth in (sth)
 shut sth in sth
 shut (sth) off
 shut sth off
 shut yourself off
 shut sb/sth out
 shut sth out
 shut sb out
 shut (sb) up
 shut sb/sth up
 shut (sth) up

able /ˈeɪ.bəl/
- to have the necessary physical strength, mental power, skill, time, money, or opportunity to do something: 
    Will she be able to cope with the work?
    He's never been able to admit to his mistakes.
    I'm sorry that I wasn't able to phone you yesterday.
    It's so wonderful being able to see the sea from my window.
- to find it easier to do something: 
    Get a good night's sleep and you'll feel better able to cope.
- intelligent or good at what you do: 
    an able child/student/secretary
    This problem is now being looked at by some of the ablest minds/scientists in the country.
- added to verbs to form adjectives that mean able to receive the action of the stated verb: 
    breakable
    washable
    movable
- added to verbs to form adjectives that mean worth receiving the action of the stated verb: 
    an admirable person
    an acceptable answer

die /daɪ/
die | present participle dying | past tense and past participle died
- to stop living or existing, either suddenly or slowly: 
    Twelve people died in the accident.
    She died of/from hunger/cancer/a heart attack/her injuries.
    It is a brave person who will die for their beliefs.
    I would like to die in my sleep (= while I am sleeping).
    Many people have a fear of dying.
    Our love will never die.
    She will not tell anyone - the secret will die with her.
- to die naturally, violently, etc.: 
    He died a violent death.
    My grandmother died a natural death (= did not die of illness or because she was killed), as she would have wanted.
- If a machine, battery, or phone dies, it stops working, usually because it has no power: 
    The engine just died on us.
    I'm sorry I didn't reply to your text - my phone died.
- a shaped piece or mould (= hollow container) made of metal or other hard material, used to shape or put a pattern on metal or plastic
- a small cube (= object with six equal square sides) with a different number of spots on each side, used in games involving chance
idioms:
 almost/nearly die of sth
 be dying for/to do sth
 die a/the death
 die hard
 do or die
 never say die
 or die in the attempt
 to die for
 to/until my dying day
 the die is cast
phrasal verbs:
 die away
 die down
 die off
 die out

perfect /ˈpɜː.fekt/
- complete and correct in every way, of the best possible type or without fault: 
    a perfect day
    What is your idea of perfect happiness?
    This church is a perfect example of medieval architecture.
    You have a perfect English accent.
    The car is five years old but is in almost perfect condition.
    She thought at last she'd found the perfect man.
- used to emphasize a noun: 
    It makes perfect sense.
    a perfect stranger
- exactly right for someone or something: 
    You'd be perfect for the job.
    The weather's just perfect for swimming.
- of or relating to a verb indicating a completed action: 
    the present perfect tense
- the tense of a verb that shows action that has happened in the past or before another time or event: 
    In English, the perfect is formed with "have" and the past participle of the verb.
- to make something free from faults: 
    He is keen to perfect his golfing technique.

police /pəˈliːs/
- the official organization that is responsible for protecting people and property, making people obey the law, finding out about and solving crime, and catching people who have committed a crime: 
    I think you should call the police.
    The police are investigating fraud allegations against him.
- members of this organization: 
    There should be more police patrolling the area on foot.
- to control or guard a public event or area by using members of the police or a similar force: 
    The march will be heavily policed by an anti-riot unit.
- to control the way in which a possibly dangerous substance is dealt with or a dangerous activity is done: 
    The use of these chemicals must be carefully policed.

stand /stænd/
stand | stood | stood
- to be in a vertical state or to put into a vertical state, especially (of a person or animal) by making the legs straight: 
    Granny says if she stands for a long time her ankles hurt.
    As a sign of politeness you should stand (up) when she comes in.
    Stand still and be quiet!
    After the earthquake not a single building was left standing in the village.
    Stand the bottles on the table over there.
- to be in, cause to be in, or get into a particular state or situation: 
    How do you think your chances stand (= are) of being offered the job?
    The national debt stands at 55 billion dollars.
    The house stood empty for years.
    Martina is currently standing second in the world listings.
    Our firm stands to lose (= will lose) a lot of money if the deal is unsuccessful.
    We really can't allow the current situation to stand (= to exist in its current form).
    Newton's laws of mechanics stood (= were thought to be completely true) for over two hundred years.
    Leave the mixture to stand (= do not touch it) for 15 minutes before use.
    It would be difficult for her to stand much lower/higher in my opinion (= for me to have a worse/better opinion of her) after the way she behaved at the party.
    She's very blunt, but at least you know where you stand with her (= you know what she thinks and how she is likely to behave).
    You stand accused of murder, how do you plead?
- to be put on trial in a law court: 
    Two other men are to stand trial next month for their part in the bombing.
- to be in, cause to be in, or put into a particular place: 
    The room was empty except for a wardrobe standing in one corner.
    Stand the paintings against the wall while we decide where to hang them.
    The photograph shows the happy couple standing beside a banana tree.
- Vehicles that are standing are waiting: 
    The train now standing at platform 8 is the 15.17 for Cardiff.
- used on signs to mean vehicles are not allowed to park, even for short periods of time: 
    The sign by the side of the road said "no standing".
- to successfully accept or bear something that is unpleasant or difficult: 
    I can't stand her voice.
    Our tent won't stand another storm like the last one.
    I can't stand hearing her cry.
- to compete, especially in an election, for an official position: 
    The president has announced she does not intend to stand for re-election.
- to have a chance of success: 
    She stands a good chance of passing her exam if she works hard.
- to be a stated height: 
    Even without his shoes he stood over two metres tall.
- to buy something, especially a meal or a drink, for someone: 
    I couldn't get to the bank, so could you stand me lunch?
- to have as an opinion: 
    How/Where does he stand on foreign policy issues?
- a large structure at a sports ground, usually with a sloping floor and sometimes a roof, where people either stand or sit to watch a sports event
- a stand: 
    Fighting broke out in the stands five minutes before the end of the match.
- an opinion, especially one that is public: 
    What's her stand on sexual equality?
- the place in which a person sits or stands in a law court when they are being asked questions: 
    The witness took the stand (= went to the place in a court where you stand and answer questions).
- a small shop or stall or an area where products can be shown, usually outside or in a large public building, at which people can buy things or get information: 
    a hotdog stand
    Over three thousand companies will have stands at this year's microelectronics exhibition.
- a frame or piece of furniture for supporting or putting things on: 
    a music stand
    a hatstand
- an act of opposition, especially in order to defend someone or something: 
    Environmental groups are making a stand against the new road through the valley.
- a particular number or period of performances: 
    The Orioles will be in town for a three-game stand.
- a group of trees, especially ones of a similar size, age, or type: 
    A pelican drifts toward a stand of trees.
    If a beetle infestation hits your forest stand and all the trees are killed, all of the carbon gets re-emitted.
idioms:
 can't stand the sight of sb/sth
 from where sb stands
 I stand corrected
 it stands to reason
 know where you stand
 stand (up) and be counted
 stand your ground
 stand sb in good stead
 stand sth on its head
 stand and deliver!
 stand bail
 stand fast/firm
 stand in the way of sth/sb
 stand on your dignity
 stand on your hands/head
 stand on your own (two) feet
 stand on ceremony
 stand or fall by sth
 stand the test of time
 standing on your head
phrasal verbs:
 stand around
 stand aside
 stand back
 stand by sb
 stand by
 stand by sth
 stand clear
 stand down
 stand for sth
 stand in
 stand out
 stand out against sth/sb
 stand over sb
 stand round
 stand together
 stand up
 stand sb up
 stand up for sth/sb
 stand up to sb/sth
 stand up to sth

hit /hɪt/
hit | present participle hitting | past tense and past participle hit
- to move your hand or an object onto the surface of something so that it touches it, usually with force: 
    Teachers are not allowed to hit their pupils.
    This type of glass won't shatter no matter how hard you hit it.
    She hit her thumb with the hammer.
- to touch something with sudden force: 
    They were going about 60 kilometres an hour when their car hit the tree.
    One journalist was hit in the leg by a stray bullet.
    That new shelf in the bathroom is too low - I just hit my head on it.
- to have an unpleasant or negative effect on a person or thing: 
    Production has been badly hit by the strike.
    Demand for transatlantic flights has been hit by fears of terrorist attacks.
- If an idea or thought hits you, you suddenly think of it: 
    That's when it hit me that my life would never be the same again.
- to shoot at or bomb a place or person, causing damage or injury: 
    Two schools were hit during the air raid.
    He was hit in the neck by a bullet from a sniper.
    Try to hit the middle of the target.
- to arrive at a place or position: 
    If we turn left at the next junction, we should hit the main road after five miles or so.
- to succeed in reaching or achieving something: 
    Our profits hit an all-time high of $20 million last year.
    I just can't hit (= sing) those high notes like I used to.
- to like someone and become friendly immediately: 
    I didn't really hit it off with his friends.
    Jake and Sue hit it off immediately.
- to kill someone: 
    Three drug dealers were hit in the city over the weekend.
- a thing or person that is very popular or successful: 
    The Beatles had a string of number-one hits in the 1960s.
    Your cake was a real hit at the party - everyone commented.
    They've just released an album of their greatest hits (= their most successful songs).
- a request to use a web page on the internet that is then counted to calculate the number of people looking at the page: 
    Our page had 243 hits this week.
- the act of hitting something or someone, or an occasion when something or someone hits you: 
    She gave him a hit on the head which knocked him flying.
- in baseball, when the batter (= person trying to hit the ball) safely reaches first base after hitting the ball
- an occasion when something that has been thrown, dropped, shot, etc. at a place or object reaches that place or object: 
    The rebel headquarters took a direct hit from a bomb during the attack.
    I scored a hit on my second shot.
- an act of murder: 
    He was the victim of a mafia hit.
idioms:
 hit sb between the eyes
 hit sb where it hurts
 hit home
 hit the books
 hit the bottle
 hit the ceiling/roof
 hit the deck
 hit the ground running
 hit the hay/sack
 hit the headlines
 hit the jackpot
 hit the nail on the head
 hit the road
 hit the spot
 not know what hit you
 be a hit with sb
phrasal verbs:
 hit back
 hit on sb
 hit on/upon sth
 hit out
 hit sb up

story /ˈstɔː.ri/
- a description, either true or imagined, of a connected series of events: 
    Will you read/tell me a story, daddy?
    Martha chose her favourite book of bedtime stories.
    He writes children's stories.
    I don't know if it's true but it's a good story (= entertaining to listen to although probably not true).
    She gave me her version of what had happened, but it would be interesting to hear his half/side of the story (= the events as described by him).
    Apparently his first words to her were "Will you marry me?" or so the story goes (= that is what people say happened).
- a report in a newspaper or on a news broadcast of something that has happened: 
    The main story in the papers today is the president's speech.
- a lie: 
    He made up some story about having to be at his aunt's wedding anniversary.
- a level of a building: 
    a three-story house
    Their new house has four stories including the attic.
idioms:
 it's/that's the story of my life
 that's my story and I'm sticking to it
 to cut a long story short

dinner /ˈdɪn.ər/
- the main meal of the day, usually the meal you eat in the evening but sometimes, in Britain, the meal eaten in the middle of the day: 
    We were just having (our) dinner.
    We had some friends over for dinner on Saturday.
    a romantic candlelit dinner
- a formal social occasion in the evening at which a meal is served: 
    They held a dinner to celebrate his retirement.
    a charity/society dinner

against /əˈɡenst/
- disagreeing with a plan or activity: 
    She spoke against the decision to close the college.
    50 people voted against the new proposal.
    I'm very much against the idea that it is the woman's job to bring up the child.
    Germany are playing against Brazil in the cup final tonight.
    She's always rebelled against authority.
    She sold the house even though it was against his wishes.
    They called a demonstration to protest against proposed job cuts.
    Are you for or against my proposal?
    Sanctions against the country should be lifted.
    Stricter controls will help in the fight against inflation.
    Criminal charges will be brought against the driver.
    They decided not to take legal action against him.
    They were up against a powerful pressure group.
    We came up against a lot of problems in the course of building our extension.
    The chances/odds against you winning such a competition are enormous.
    It's against the law (= illegal) to leave children under a certain age alone in the house.
    It's against my beliefs/principles to be nice to someone I dislike just because they're in a senior position.
    Against all probability (= although it was extremely unlikely) we found ourselves in the same hotel.
    I wouldn't dare say anything against him (= criticize him) to his mother!
- If you have something against someone, you dislike them for a reason: 
    I've nothing against him - I just don't have much in common with him.
- If something counts/goes/works against you, it gives you a disadvantage: 
    Lack of experience will generally count against you in an interview.
- next to and touching or being supported by (something): 
    Why don't we put the bed against the wall?
    He loved the feel of her soft hair against his skin.
    The rain beat against her face as she struggled through the wind.
    The police officer had him up against the wall, both arms behind his back.
    She leaned against the door.
- in front of or compared to: 
    Paintings look best against a simple white wall.
- in the opposite direction to: 
    The last part of the course was hard because I was running against the wind.
    Commuting is not so bad when you are travelling against the traffic.
- as a protection or defence from the bad effects of: 
    We've insured the car against fire, theft, and accident.
    The police have to arm themselves against attack.
idioms:
 against time/the clock
 as against
 be up against it

funny /ˈfʌn.i/
- humorous; causing laughter: 
    Do you know any funny jokes?
    I've never found Charlie Chaplin very funny.
    It's a really funny film.
    It's not funny - don't laugh!
    Breaking your leg isn't funny (= it is serious).
    No matter how disastrous the situation there always seems to be a funny side to it.
    Don't you try to be funny with me (= be serious and show respect), young man!
- strange, surprising, unexpected, or difficult to explain or understand: 
    The washing machine is making a funny noise again.
    He's got some funny ideas about how to bring up children.
    That's funny - I'm sure I left my keys here.
    A funny thing happened to me on the way to the crematorium.
    I felt funny when I realized everyone was watching me.
    It's funny how Alec always disappears whenever there's work to be done.
    She's a funny girl (= she is strange and difficult to understand).
    The television's gone funny (= isn't working correctly).
- dishonest; involving cheating: 
    I think there's something funny going on next door.
- unfriendly or seeming to be offended: 
    I'm not being funny or anything but I think I'd rather go on my own.
    She sounded a bit funny with me on the phone last night and I wondered if I'd offended her.
- slightly ill: 
    I don't know if it was something I ate but I'm feeling a little bit funny.
- slightly crazy: 
    All the stress made him go a bit funny.
- the series of drawings in a newspaper that tell a humorous story
idioms:
 funny ha-ha or funny peculiar?
 it's a funny old world

husband /ˈhʌz.bənd/
- the man that you are married to: 
    I've never met Fiona's husband.
- to use something carefully so that you do not use all of it
idioms:
 as husband and wife

almost /ˈɔːl.məʊst/
- nearly: 
    She's almost 30.
    It was almost six o'clock when he left.
    I almost wish I hadn't invited him.
    It'll cost almost as much to repair it as it would to buy a new one.
    Almost all the passengers on the ferry were French.
    They'll almost certainly forget to do it.
    The town was almost entirely destroyed during the war.
    We were bitten by mosquitoes almost every night.
    The boat sank almost immediately after it had struck the rock.
    Most artists find it almost impossible to make a living from art alone.

stupid /ˈstjuː.pɪd/
- silly or unwise; showing poor judgment or little intelligence: 
    She was really stupid to quit her job like that.
    Whose stupid idea was it to travel at night?
    He now thinks that retiring early was a stupid thing to do.
    How could you be so stupid?
- annoying, or causing a problem: 
    Have your stupid book back if it's so important to you.
    I hate doing this stupid exercise, I just can't get it right.
- used when talking to someone who does something stupid, to refer to them: 
    Don't lock it, stupid!
    Not that one, stupid.

pay /peɪ/
pay | paid | paid
- to give money to someone for something you want to buy or for services provided: 
    How much did you pay for the tickets?
    I pay my taxes.
    I'll pay you the fiver back tomorrow.
    I paid the driver (in/with) cash.
    Would you prefer to pay with/by cash, cheque, or credit card?
    I think we'll need to pay a builder to take this wall down.
    Did Linda pay you for looking after her cats while she was away?
    I paid (out) a lot of money to get the washing machine fixed and it still doesn't work!
- If something pays for itself, it works so well that it saves the same amount of money that it cost: 
    The advertising should pay for itself.
- to give money to someone for work that they have done: 
    The company pays its interns $4,000 a month.
    We pay €200 a day for this kind of work.
    Accountancy may be boring but at least it pays well.
    Most of these women are very poorly paid and work in terrible conditions.
- to give a profit or advantage to someone or something: 
    It never pays to take risks where human safety is concerned.
- to give or do something: 
    The commander paid tribute to the courage of his troops.
    It's always nice to be paid a compliment.
    A crowd of mourners gathered to pay their respects to the dead man.
- to watch, listen to, or think about something carefully: 
    You weren't paying attention to what I was saying.
- to visit a person or place, usually for a short time: 
    I'll pay you a call when I'm in the area.
    We thought we'd pay a visit to the museum while we were in Lisbon.
    If you leave your address, I'll pay a call on you when I'm in the area.
- the money you receive for doing a job: 
    It's a nice job but the pay is appalling.
- to work for someone, especially secretly
idioms:
 he who pays the piper calls the tune.
 pay your dues
 pay your way
 pay dividends
 pay the price
 pay the ultimate price
 pay through the nose
 pay top dollar
 put paid to sth
 you pays your money and you takes your choice/chance
phrasal verbs:
 pay sb/sth back
 pay sb back
 pay down sth
 pay for sth
 pay sth in
 pay off
 pay sth off
 pay sb off
 pay (sth) out
 pay sth out
 pay up

answer /ˈɑːn.sər/
- a reaction to a question, letter, phone call, etc.: 
    The minister promised to give a written answer to the MP's detailed question.
    We've emailed him asking him if he's free on that date but we haven't had an answer yet.
    I've just called him but there was no answer.
    I didn't realize we had to write each answer on a new sheet of paper.
    I got eight correct answers and two wrong ones in last week's exam.
    In answer to your letter of 30 May, I am writing to accept your offer of £3,575 in compensation.
- a solution to a problem: 
    It's a difficult situation and I don't know what the answer is.
    There's no easy answer to the problem.
- to say, write, or do something as a reaction to a question, letter, etc.: 
    I can't answer (you) without more detailed information.
    You haven't answered my question.
    I texted asking whether he'd be coming to the party but he hasn't answered yet.
    "I'd love to have dinner with you, but I won't be able to get there before nine o'clock," she answered.
    She answered that she wouldn't be able to come before nine o'clock.
    Does anyone here answer to the name of (= is anyone here called) Wallis?
- to open the door to someone or pick up the phone: 
    Someone's at the door - would you answer it, please?
    I phoned last night but nobody answered.
- to be suitable for and satisfy someone's needs: 
    He showed me some software that answered my requirements exactly.
    I've got some furniture in the attic that I think might answer your needs.
- to match a description: 
    A woman who answers to the suspect's description was seen in the area on the night of the crime.
idioms:
 sb's answer to sb/sth
phrasal verbs:
 answer (sb) back
 answer back
 answer for sth
 answer for sb/sth
 answer to sb

four /fɔːr/
- the number 4: 
    Most animals have four legs.
    Their little girl is nearly four.
- a team of four people in rowing, or the boat that they use
- in cricket, to get four runs by hitting the ball to the edge of the field
idioms:
 on all fours

office /ˈɒf.ɪs/
- a room or part of a building in which people work, especially sitting at tables with computers, phones, etc., usually as a part of a business or other organization: 
    the director's office
    I didn't leave the office until eight o'clock last night.
    office equipment
    office workers
- a part of a company: 
    They have offices in Paris, London, and Madrid.
- a place where you can go to ask advice from or receive treatment from a doctor or dentist: 
    I have an appointment at the doctor's/dentist's/physician's office on Tuesday.
    In the days after the accident, the doctor saw him in two office visits.
- a position of authority and responsibility in a government or other organization: 
    the office of vice president
    As chairman of the association, he held office for over 20 years.
    The Socialist party has been in office (= governing)/out of office (= not governing) for almost ten years.
    She's held various offices during her time in government.
    The new President takes office on January 20th.
- a department of the national government in Britain, or an official government organization: 
    the Home Office
    the Foreign Office
    the Office of Fair Trading

cool /kuːl/
- slightly cold: 
    cool water
    cool weather
- slightly cold in a pleasant way: 
    It was a lovely cool evening.
    How do you manage to look so cool in this hot weather?
- used to describe a temperature that is slightly too cold: 
    It's a bit cool in here, isn't it? I think I'll close the window.
- calm and not worried or frightened; not influenced by strong feeling of any kind: 
    He was very cool when we broke the window, and didn't shout or get mad.
    Stay/Keep cool (= do not become angry or excited).
- to be happy to accept a situation or suggestion: 
    Yeah, we could leave later - I'm cool with that.
- fashionable in a way that people admire: 
    Angie's got some cool new sunglasses.
    I know it won't look very cool, but this hat will keep the sun out of your eyes.
    She hangs out with all the cool kids at school.
- excellent; very good: 
    "So how was the concert?" "It was cool!"
    Our new car is really cool.
    You have such a cool bedroom.
- acceptable: 
    Would it be cool if I borrowed the car tonight?
    I didn't like the way he spoke to her. Not cool.
- Cool colours, such as blue or green, make you feel calm and relaxed: 
    The bedroom was painted a lovely cool blue.
- unfriendly or not showing kindness or interest in something or someone: 
    She was decidedly cool towards me.
    I got a rather cool reception/welcome this evening. What do you think I've done wrong?
- used for saying that you think something is good or acceptable, or that you have understood what you have been told: 
    "Jamie's invited us to stay for a few days." "Cool!"
    "I'm going to leave now." "OK, cool."
    "First you put the soap in, then you turn on the machine." "Cool."
- the pleasant, slightly cold temperature of a place: 
    He loved the cool of the early morning.
    She left the afternoon sun for the cool of the shade.
- a person's ability to stay calm and not become angry or excited: 
    keep your cool
    He really lost his cool when he heard about what happened.
- to become or cause something to become slightly colder: 
    Leave the cake to cool for an hour before cutting it.
    He took off his shoes to cool his sweaty feet.
- If a feeling cools or cools off, it starts to become less strong: 
    They were completely in love in the beginning, but I think it's starting to cool off now.
    Their interest in the project seems to be cooling.
- If the economy, a business, etc. cools or cools off, it grows less fast than before: 
    The stock market has cooled off after hitting new highs last week.
idioms:
 (as) cool as a cucumber
 cool customer
 keep a cool head
 too cool for school
 cool it
 cool your jets
phrasal verbs:
 cool (sb/sth) down/off
 cool (sb) down/off

news /njuːz/
- information or reports about recent events: 
    That's the best (piece of) news I've heard for a long time!
    We've had no news of them since they left for Australia.
    Have you heard the news about Tina and Tom? They're getting divorced.
    I can't wait to hear all your news.
    The news that Dan had resigned took everyone by surprise.
    We've got some good news for you. We're getting married.
- a television or radio programme consisting of reports about recent events: 
    Was there anything interesting on the news tonight?
    I saw it on the 6 o'clock news.
    I usually watch the early evening/late night news.
- to tell someone about something bad that has just happened and may have an effect on them: 
    I was devastated when the doctor broke the news to me.
    I remember where I was when the news of Kennedy's assassination broke (= became known).
- to be someone or something that will affect a person or situation well/badly: 
    He's bad news for the company. He should never have been given the job.
- to be reported about: 
    They've been in the news a lot recently because of their marital problems.
idioms:
 be news to sb
 have news for sb
 no news is good news

child /tʃaɪld/
child | plural children uk/ˈtʃɪl.drən/ us/ˈtʃɪl.drən/
- a boy or girl from the time of birth until he or she is an adult, or a son or daughter of any age: 
    an eight-year-old child
    As a child I didn't eat vegetables.
    A small group of children waited outside the door.
    Both her children are now married with children of their own.
    Jan is married with three young children.
- an adult who behaves badly, like a badly behaved child: 
    He's such a child if he doesn't get his own way.
- someone who has been very influenced by a particular period or situation: 
    Me, I'm a child of the 60s.
idioms:
 be child's play
 children should be seen and not heard
 (great) with child

half /hɑːf/
- either of the two equal or nearly equal parts that together make up a whole: 
    "What's half of 96?" "48."
    Roughly half (of) the class are Spanish and the others are a mixture of nationalities.
    Cut the apple in half/into halves (= into two equal parts).
    My little brother is half as tall as me/half my height.
    half a dozen (= six) eggs
    Half of me would just like to give it all up and travel around the world (= partly I would like to, but partly I would not).
    She was born in the latter half of the 18th century.
    The recipe tells you to use a pound and a half of butter.
- a lot: 
    She invited a lot of people to the party but half of them didn't turn up.
    I don't even know where she is half (of) the time.
- Half past a particular hour is 30 minutes later than that hour: 
    I'll meet you at half past nine (= 09.30 or 21.30).
    I'll meet you at half seven (= half past seven).
- only partly: 
    He answered the door half naked.
    I was half expecting to see her at the party.
    I'm half inclined to take the job just because it's in Argentina.
    He was being funny but I think he was half serious.
    The bottle's half empty.
- to divide the cost of something with someone: 
    Shall we go halves on a bottle of champagne?
    I'll go halves with you on a bottle of champagne.
- equal amounts of two different things: 
    You can use just sugar, just honey, or half and half.
- 50 percent more of the existing number or amount
- either of two periods of time into which a game is divided
- half a pint of a drink, especially beer: 
    A pint of lager and two halves, please.
- a ticket that is cheaper because it is for a child: 
    Two (adults) and three halves to Manchester, please.
idioms:
 be half the battle
 be half the dancer, writer, etc. you used to be
 given half a/the chance
 how the other half lives
 not do things by halves
 not half
 not half as
 not know the half of it
 that was a game, meal, walk, etc. and a half!

yours /jɔːz/
- the one(s) belonging to or connected with the person or group of people being spoken or written to: 
    Is this pen yours?
    Unfortunately my legs aren't as long as yours.
    I've got something of yours (= that belongs to you).
    Yours is the room on the top floor, on the left.
- used at the beginning of some phrases written at the end of a letter, before giving a name: 
    Yours, Jack
    Yours faithfully/sincerely, K. Maxwell.
- used to show that something belongs to or is connected with people generally: 
    Other people's children always seem to be better behaved than yours.
idioms:
 yours truly

moment /ˈməʊ.mənt/
- a very short period of time: 
    Can you wait a moment?
    I'll be ready in just a moment.
    A car drew up outside and a few moments later the doorbell rang.
    I'm expecting her to come at any moment (= very soon).
    Have you got a moment (= are you busy or do you have time to speak to me)?
- a particular time or occasion: 
    When would be the best moment to tell the family?
    Don't leave it to/till the last moment (= the latest time possible).
    If you want a private conversation with her you'll have to choose your moment (= find a suitable time).
    The moment (that) (= as soon as) I get the money I'll send the ticket.
- now: 
    Sorry, she's not here at the moment.
- If you do something for the moment, you are doing it now, but might do something different in the future: 
    Let's keep doing what we agreed for the moment.
- now: 
    I can give no information at this precise moment in time.
- very important: 
    a decision of great moment
idioms:
 be having a moment
 have your/its moments
 the moment of truth
 a moment of weakness
 not a moment too soon
 not for a moment
 of the moment

sleep /sliːp/
- the resting state in which the body is not active and the mind is unconscious: 
    I must get some sleep - I'm exhausted.
- to succeed in sleeping: 
    I couldn't get to sleep at all last night I was so worried.
    You'll find that your baby usually goes to sleep after a feed.
- a period of sleeping: 
    You must be tired after all that driving - why don't you have a little sleep?
    He fell into a deep sleep.
    You'll feel better after a good night's sleep.
- a night's sleep, used especially when saying how far away in time something is: 
    It's only one more sleep till we go to Disneyland!
    How many sleeps until I see you again, Daddy?
- a yellowish substance sometimes found in the corners of the eyes after sleeping
- to be in the state of rest when your eyes are closed, your body is not active, and your mind is unconscious: 
    I couldn't sleep because of all the noise next door.
    I slept late on Sunday morning.
    How can Jayne sleep at night with all those worries on her mind!
    We had dinner with Ann and Charles and slept the night there (= at their home).
- If a vehicle, tent, etc. sleeps a particular number of people, it provides enough space or beds for that number of people to be able to sleep in it: 
    The tent sleeps four comfortably.
- to sleep very well: 
    I went to bed early and slept like a log.
- to delay making a decision about something important until the next day so that you have time to consider it carefully: 
    Can I sleep on it, and tell you my decision tomorrow?
- to sleep outside because you have no home and no money: 
    Hundreds of kids are sleeping rough on the streets of the capital.
- said to someone who is going to bed to tell them you hope they sleep well: 
    Sleep tight - see you in the morning.
idioms:
 could do sth in your sleep
 go back to sleep!
 go to sleep
 put sth to sleep
phrasal verbs:
 sleep around
 sleep in
 sleep sth off
 sleep over
 sleep through sth
 sleep together
 sleep with sb

young /jʌŋ/
- having lived or existed for only a short time and not old: 
    young adults/children
    His girlfriend's very young.
    The trees in this part of the forest are still fairly young.
    Philippa is the youngest person in the family.
    Angela is two years younger than Clare.
- used after someone's name to show that they are the younger of two people who have the same name, especially a father and son: 
    He played a large part in the administration of George Bush the Younger.
- suitable for young people: 
    young fashion/ideas
    Be honest now - do you think this dress is a bit/too young for me (= is more suitable for someone younger)?
- to look younger than you really are
- young people considered together as a group: 
    I have nothing against miniskirts, but I think they're strictly for the young.
- the babies of an animal: 
    Meanwhile, the mother flies back to the nest to feed her young.
idioms:
 young at heart
 young lady/man
 young love

men /men/
- plural of
man 

sonny /ˈsʌn.i/
- a form of address used by an older person to a boy or a young man: 
    Look here, sonny, you've got a lot to learn!

lucky /ˈlʌk.i/
- having good things happen to you by chance: 
    "I'm going to Japan." "Lucky you!"
    The lucky winner will be able to choose from three different holidays.
    They're lucky to have such a nice office to work in.
    He's lucky that he wasn't fired.
    It sounds as if you had a lucky escape (= by good chance you were able to avoid something dangerous or unpleasant).
    We'll be lucky if we get there by midnight at this rate (= we might get there by midnight or it might be later).
- bringing good luck: 
    a lucky charm
    Six is my lucky number.
idioms:
 get lucky
 you should be so lucky!

pick /pɪk/
- to take some things and leave others: 
    Pick a card from the pack.
    One of my sisters has been picked for the Olympic team.
    She was picked to play for the team.
    The police asked him if he could pick (out) the killer from a series of photos.
    The fairest way to decide the winner is to pick a name out of a hat/at random (= without looking or choosing).
    They picked their way (= carefully chose a route) down the broken steps.
    He's brilliant at picking winners (= choosing what will be successful).
- to take some things but not others: 
    The richest universities can pick and choose which students they take.
- to remove separate things or small pieces from something, especially with the fingers: 
    I picked a piece of fluff off my shiny black suit.
    The child continued picking (at) a sore on his leg (= trying to remove parts of it with his fingers).
    The carcass had been picked clean (= all the flesh had been removed) by other animals and birds.
    He kept picking his nose (= removing mucus from it with his finger).
- When you pick flowers or fruit, you take them off a plant or tree: 
    They were picking strawberries for twelve hours a day.
    I picked some roses this morning.
    Machines pick the fruit (from/off the trees).
- When you pick a string on a guitar or similar instrument, you pull it quickly and release it suddenly with your fingers to produce a note.
- choice: 
    You can have first pick of the desserts.
- to have a large choice available: 
    The plane was fairly empty so we had our pick of seats.
- to choose the one(s) you want from the different types available: 
    The shirts come in five different colours - just take your pick.
- a 
pickaxe : 
    picks and shovels
- especially in combinations, a sharp pointed tool: 
    a toothpick
- a small, thin piece of plastic, metal, etc. that isheld between the fingers and thumb and usedfor playing instruments such as the guitar
idioms:
 pick sb's brains
 pick sb's pocket
 pick yourself up off the floor
 pick a fight/quarrel/argument
 pick holes in sth
 pick 'n' mix
 the pick of sth
phrasal verbs:
 pick at sth
 pick sb/sth off
 pick on sb
 pick sb/sth out
 pick sth out
 pick over sth
 pick through sth
 pick sb/sth up
 pick sth up
 pick (sth) up
 pick sb up
 pick up
 pick sb up on sth
 pick up on sth

sometimes /ˈsʌm.taɪmz/
- on some occasions but not always or often: 
    Sometimes we take food with us and sometimes we buy food when we're there.
    Sometimes it's best not to say anything.

them strong /ðem/
- used, usually as the object of a verb or preposition, to refer to people, things, animals, situations, or ideas that have already been mentioned: 
    I've lost my keys. I can't find them anywhere.
    It's them. They're here.
- used to refer to one person whose sex is not known instead of saying "him" or "her": 
    When each passenger arrives, we ask them to fill in a form.
    When each passenger arrives, we ask him or her to fill in a form.
- not standard for
those : 
    Who gave you them cookies?
idioms:
 them and us

bed /bed/
- a large, rectangular piece of furniture, often with four legs, used for sleeping on: 
    He lived in a room with only two chairs, a bed, and a table.
    He likes to have breakfast in bed on a Saturday morning.
    She didn't get out of bed till lunchtime today.
    I'm exhausted - I'm going to bed (= going to get into a bed in order to sleep).
    I always put the children to bed (= make certain that they get into a bed and are comfortable there ready for going to sleep) at 7.30 p.m. 
- to make a bed neat after you have slept in it
- the bottom of something, or something that serves as a base: 
    Many strange plants and fish live on the sea bed.
    The railway was built on a bed of solid rock.
- a pile of one type of food on which other food is arranged as a meal: 
    roasted vegetables on a bed of rice
- a piece of ground used for growing plants outside: 
    They have some beautiful flower beds in their garden.
- to put something firmly into a substance or into the ground: 
    The posts should be firmly bedded in concrete.
- to have sex with someone
- abbreviation for Bachelor of Education: a degree taken by some teachers, or a person who has this degree
idioms:
 be in bed with
 bed of nails
 bed of roses
 get out of bed (on) the wrong side
 go to bed with sb
 in bed
 put sth to bed
 take to your bed
 you've made your bed, now lie in it
phrasal verbs:
 bed down
 bed sth out

also /ˈɔːl.səʊ/
- in addition: 
    She's a photographer and also writes books.
    I'm cold, and I'm also hungry and tired.

date /deɪt/
- a numbered day in a month, often given with a combination of the name of the day, the month, and the year: 
    What's the date (today)?/What date is it?/What's today's date?
    Today's date is 11 June (the eleventh of June).
    Today's date is June 11 (June the eleventh).
    What is your date of birth?
    The closing date for applications is the end of this month.
    We agreed to meet again at a later date.
    I'd like to fix a date for our next meeting.
    I made a date (= agreed a date and time) to see her about the house.
- a particular year: 
    The date on the coin is 1789.
    Albert Einstein's dates are 1879 to 1955 (= he was born in 1879 and died in 1955).
- a month and a year: 
    The expiry (US expiration) date of this certificate is August 2017.
- a social meeting planned before it happens, especially one between two people who have or might have a romantic relationship: 
    He asked her out on a date.
    She has a hot date (= an exciting meeting) tonight.
- a person you have a romantic meeting with: 
    Who's your date for the prom?
- a performance: 
    They've just finished an exhausting 75-date European tour.
- the sweet fruit of various types of palm tree
- to write the day's date on something you have written or made: 
    Thank you for your letter dated 30 August.
- to say how long something has existed or when it was made: 
    Archaeologists have been unable to date these fossils.
    An antique dealer had dated the vase at (= said that it was made in) 1734.
- to regularly spend time with someone you have a romantic relationship with: 
    They dated for five years before they got married.
    How long have you been dating Nicky?
- to stop being fashionable or become old-fashioned: 
    Some James Bond films have dated more than others.
- to show the age of a person or thing: 
    I can remember watching live TV coverage of the first lunar landing, so that dates me (= shows how old I am).
idioms:
 it's a date
 to date
phrasal verbs:
 date back
 date from sth

line /laɪn/
- a long, thin mark on the surface of something: 
    a straight line
    Sign your name on the dotted line.
    She was very old and her face was covered with lines.
    My legs felt all wobbly when I stood up and I couldn't walk in a straight line (= walk without moving to the side while moving forward).
- a group of people or things arranged in a row: 
    a line of trees
    The prisoners formed a line against the wall.
- a group of people standing one behind the other who are waiting for something: 
    Just get in line and wait your turn like everyone else.
    I had to wait/stand in line for three hours to get tickets.
- a series of people or things that follow each other in time: 
    She is the latest in a long line of controversial leaders.
    He comes from a long line of doctors (= a lot of his relatives were doctors before him).
- a long, thin and sometimes imaginary mark that forms the edge, border, or limit of something: 
    That ball was definitely in! It was nowhere near the line!
    The police couldn't arrest him because he'd fled across the state line.
    For many television viewers the dividing line between fact and fiction is becoming increasingly blurred.
- a connection to a phone system: 
    I'm afraid your line's been disconnected because your last bill hasn't been paid.
    If you want to air your opinions live on the radio, the lines will be open (= you can phone) from eight o'clock.
    I've got Chris Foster on the line for you. Do you want to take it now or call her back later?
    Please hold the line (= wait). I'll see if she's available.
- (the route followed by) a railway track: 
    The train was delayed, apparently due to leaves on the line.
    The Northern Line is the worst on the London Underground.
    Mainline services can be very quick, but travelling on the branch lines is much slower.
- a way of dealing with or thinking about something or someone: 
    The government's official line has always been to refuse to negotiate with terrorists.
    The courts should take a tougher line with (= punish more severely) sex offenders.
    Several Labour MPs disagree with their party's line on taxation.
    What sort of line (= method of arguing) do you think we should take in the pay negotiations?
    The police are confident that this new line of inquiry will lead them to the murderer.
    It seems inevitable that the country will be divided along ethnic lines.
- a way of thinking about a particular subject: 
    We cannot agree with their line of reasoning.
- a row of positions used to defend against enemy attack, especially the ones closest to enemy positions: 
    They were taken prisoner while on a reconnaissance mission behind enemy lines.
    In a game of football, the goalkeeper is the last line of defence.
- the shape of something that has been designed or created: 
    They have a reputation for designing cars with elegant aerodynamic lines.
- a long, strong, thin piece of material, such as string, rope, or wire, used to support something: 
    I'd hung the washing out on the clothes line.
    Can you feel the fish tugging on the line?
- a company that transports people or goods: 
    a shipping line
- a remark that is intended to entertain, persuade, or deceive: 
    a speech full of memorable lines
    He keeps giving me that line about not being able to do any work because his computer is down.
    Who was it who came up with that famous line about "lies, damned lies and statistics?"
- a row of words that form part of a text: 
    We could get more lines on the page if we reduced the type size.
    The computer screen displays 80 characters per line.
- the words that an actor speaks when performing in a film, play, etc.: 
    I only had two lines in the whole play.
    She hasn't learned her lines yet, and we've got our first rehearsal tomorrow.
    I'm terrified of forgetting my lines.
- a punishment for school students in which a sentence has to be written repeatedly: 
    She got 200 lines for swearing at her teacher.
- a short series of musical notes
- the type of job someone does: 
    "What line of work are you in?" "I'm a teacher."
    You meet some very interesting people in my line of business.
- a range of similar things that are for sale: 
    There are discounts on many items from our older lines.
    I was shown all their new lines.
- to form a row along the side of something: 
    Thousands of people lined the streets to watch the presidential procession pass by.
    Police lined the route of the demonstration.
    country lanes lined with trees
- to cover the inside surface of something: 
    I lined the drawers with old wallpaper.
    How much would it cost to have this jacket lined?
    Full-length mirrors lined each wall of the bathroom.
idioms:
 all along the line
 along the lines of sth
 along the same lines
 be in line for sth
 be in line to do sth
 be in line to the throne
 in line with sth
 off his line
 be on the line
 be out of line with sth
 get a line on sb
 have a nice, good, etc. line in sth
 in the line of duty
 line of sight
 put/lay sth on the line
 somewhere along the line
 step/be out of line
 line your pocket(s)
phrasal verbs:
 line (sb) up
 line sth up

lose /luːz/
lose | lost | lost
- to no longer have something because you do not know where it is: 
    I've lost my ticket.
    He's always losing his car keys.
- to have something or someone taken away from you: 
    At least 600 staff will lose their jobs if the factory closes.
    He lost his leg in a car accident.
    She lost her mother (= her mother died) last year.
- to stop feeling something: 
    to lose confidence/faith
    I lost interest halfway through the book.
    He kept on crying and I lost my patience.
- to have less of something than you had before: 
    I'm trying to lose weight.
    He's losing his hair.
    She lost a lot of blood in the accident.
    to lose your memory/sight
- If you lose time, you waste it: 
    Four million hours were lost last year through stress-related illnesses.
    We lost valuable time stuck in traffic.
- If a clock loses time, it goes more slowly than it should: 
    My watch loses ten minutes every day.
- to get rid of something: 
    Lose the belt and let's see how the dress looks.
- A business that is losing money is spending more money than it is receiving: 
    Banks will lose millions of pounds because of new legislation.
- to fail to succeed in a game, competition, etc.: 
    If we lose this game, we're out of the championship.
    They're losing 3–1.
    They lost to Cincinnati.
    Everyone hates losing an argument.
    They hadn't lost an election in 15 years.
idioms:
 be losing it
 lose your head
 lose your heart to sb
 lose your life
 lose your mind
 lose your rag
 lose your shirt
 lose your touch
 lose your way
 lose ground
 lose heart
 lose it
 lose sight of sth
 lose sleep over/about sth
 lose the plot
 you've got nothing to lose
phrasal verbs:
 lose out

fire /faɪər/
- (material that is in) the state of burning that produces flames that send out heat and light, and might produce smoke: 
    Animals are usually afraid of fire.
    The fire was started by children playing with matches.
    40 people helped to put out (= stop) the fire.
    The library was badly damaged in the fire.
    How many historic buildings are damaged by fire each year?
    She had to be rescued when her house caught (US caught on) fire (= started to burn).
- a small controlled fire that is used for heating or cooking: 
    It's very cold in here - should I light a fire?
    We built a fire on the beach.
    We put up our tents and made a small fire.
- If something is on fire, it is burning when it should not be: 
    If your home was on fire and you could save only one thing, what would it be?
- a gas or electric heater that is used to warm up a room: 
    a gas/electric fire
    If you're cold just put the fire on.
- the shooting of guns or other weapons: 
    The police opened fire on (= started shooting at) the protesters.
    The command was given to cease fire (= stop shooting).
    The city came under fire from anti-government forces last night.
- strong emotion: 
    The fire in her speech inspired everyone.
- to cause a weapon to shoot bullets, arrows, or missiles: 
    He fired his gun into the air.
    Someone started firing at us.
    Without warning he started firing into the crowd.
    I just prayed that he would stop firing.
    The ambassador denied that any missiles had been fired across the border.
- to direct a series of questions or criticisms at someone: 
    The journalists were firing questions at me for two whole hours.
    "I'd like to ask you some questions about your childhood." "Fire away!" (= You can start asking them now.)
- to remove someone from their job, either because they have done something wrong or badly, or as a way of saving the cost of employing them: 
    She was fired after she was caught stealing from her employer.
    He was fired from his $165,000 job for poor performance.
    She has just been fired as editor of the newspaper.
    The company is reducing its workforce by firing 500 employees.
- to cause a strong emotion in someone: 
    I had a brilliant English teacher who fired me with enthusiasm for literature at an early age.
    Talk of treasure and lost cities had fired their imaginations.
- to heat objects made of clay in a kiln (= a special oven) so that they become hard
idioms:
 come under fire
 fire and brimstone
 fire in your belly
 go through fire and water
 hang/hold fire
 play with fire
 put out fires
 set sth/sb on fire
 set fire to sth/sb
 be firing on all cylinders
 in the firing line
phrasal verbs:
 fire sth off
 fire sb up
 fire sth up

free /friː/
- not limited or controlled: 
    Am I free (= do I have permission) to leave now?
    I'll give you a key, so you'll be free to come and go as you like.
    Please feel free to interrupt me if you don't understand anything.
    The agreement gives companies free access to the markets of member countries.
    A great deal has been achieved, most notably free elections (= elections in which people can vote as they wish).
- relaxed and informal: 
    The atmosphere in the office is fairly free and easy.
- costing nothing, or not needing to be paid for: 
    I got some free cinema tickets.
    Members all receive a free copy of the monthly newsletter.
    The elderly travel free on public transport.
    We will install your washing machine free of charge/for free (= without charge).
- not a prisoner any longer, or having unlimited movement: 
    She left the court a free woman after the case against her collapsed because of a legal technicality.
    The new government has decided to set all political prisoners free.
    She went/walked free after the charges against her were dropped.
    I let the dogs run free in the park.
- not in a fixed position or not joined to anything: 
    Both bookcases stand free of the wall.
    The bolts have worked themselves free because of the vibrations.
    Rescuers took several hours to cut the survivors free from the wreckage.
- not doing anything planned or important, or available to be used: 
    I do a lot of reading in my free time.
    She's in a meeting at the moment, but she should be free to see you in ten minutes.
    I'm working in the café all this week, but I've got a free evening next Monday.
    Excuse me, is this seat free (= is anyone intending to sit in this seat)?
    We queued for half an hour waiting for a free space in the car park.
    If you take these bags, that will give me a free hand to open the door.
- not having something that is unwanted or unpleasant: 
    The organization is a charitable enterprise, so it is free from tax worldwide.
    She'll never be completely free of the disease.
    Ensure the wound is free from/of dirt before applying the bandage.
- giving or using often or in large amounts: 
    He's rather free with his wife's money.
    She's very free with advice but she never seems to act on it herself.
    He's very free with his criticism!
- to use something that belongs to someone else a lot: 
    Don't her parents mind her making free with their house while they're on holiday?
- If an element is free, it is not combined with anything else or attached to anything else: 
    free oxygen/nitrogen
- to allow someone to leave a prison or place where they have been kept: 
    After a ten-hour siege the gunman agreed to free the hostages.
    Anti-vivisectionists last night freed a number of animals from a laboratory.
- to move or make loose someone or something that is caught or held somewhere: 
    Both men were freed from the wreckage after a four-hour operation.
    In vain he tried to free the rope around his hands.
- to remove the limits or controls on someone or something: 
    Her retirement from politics will free her (= provide her with enough time) to write her memoirs.
- to make something available for someone to use: 
    They planned to extend the car park, freeing existing parking spaces for visitors.
    Can you cancel my meetings - I need to free (up) the afternoon to write this report.
- used at the end of words to mean "without having to pay": 
    They agreed to let us live there rent-free.
    Many banks are now offering interest-free overdrafts to students.
- used at the end of words to mean "without": 
    lead-free fuel
    No working environment is entirely stress-free.
    The journey was surprisingly hassle-free.
idioms:
 a free ride
 there's no such thing as a free lunch
 free and clear
phrasal verbs:
 free sb from/of sth

hand /hænd/
- the part of the body at the end of the arm that is used for holding, moving, touching, and feeling things: 
    All their toys are made by hand.
    I delivered her invitation by hand (= not using the postal service).
    Get your hands off (= stop touching) my bike!
    He can fix anything - he's so good with his hands.
    You have to hold my hand when we cross the road.
    They walked by, holding hands.
    Hold your fork in your left hand and your knife in your right hand.
    She sat, pen in hand (= with a pen in her hand), searching for the right words.
    They can't keep their hands off each other - they never stop kissing and cuddling.
    "Congratulations!" she said and shook me by the hand/shook my hand/shook hands with me.
    She took me by the hand and led me into the cave.
    a hand towel
- one of the long, thin pieces that point to the numbers on a clock or watch: 
    Does anyone have a watch with a second hand?
- a (single part of a) game of cards, or the set of cards that a player has in a game: 
    Who wants to play a hand of poker?
    You dealt me an appalling hand in that game.
- help with doing something that needs a lot of effort: 
    Would you like a hand carrying those bags?
    Could you give/lend me a hand with (= help me to move) the table, please?
    I think Matthew might need a hand with his maths homework.
    I could really use a hand with these accounts if you could spare a moment.
- a person who does physical work or is skilled or experienced in something: 
    How many extra hands will we need to help with the harvest?
    I joined the firm as a factory hand and gradually worked my way up to the top.
- a sailor: 
    All hands on deck!
- involvement in or influence over an event: 
    It is not thought that terrorists had a hand in the explosion.
- clapping for a performer: 
    So please give a big hand to (= welcome with clapping) your host for the evening, Bill Cronshaw!
- a person's writing: 
    an uneven hand
- a unit for measuring the height of a horse up to its shoulder: 
    One hand equals four inches (= 10.16 centimetres).
- to put something into someone's hand from your own hand: 
    The waiter smiled politely as he handed me my bill/handed my bill to me.
    Please read this memo carefully and hand it on (to your colleagues).
idioms:
 at hand
 at the hands of sb
 a game in hand
 get/lay/put your hands on sb
 get/lay/put your hands on sth
 go hand in hand with sth
 hand in glove
 hand in hand
 hand over fist
 hand to hand
 sb's hands are tied
 have your hands full
 have sth in hand
 have sth on your hands
 hold/put your hands up
 in hand
 the job/matter in hand
 keep your hand in
 keep a firm hand on sth
 live (from) hand to mouth
 on hand
 on the one hand ... on the other hand
 out of hand
 put your hand in your pocket
 a safe pair of hands
 take sb/sth in hand
 win (sth) hands down
 have (got) to hand it to sb
phrasal verbs:
 hand sth around
 hand sth back
 hand sth down
 hand sth in
 hand off
 hand sth off
 hand sth out
 hand sth over
 hand sth/sb over
 hand sth round

serious /ˈsɪə.ri.əs/
- severe in effect; bad: 
    a serious illness
    There were no reports of serious injuries.
    The new tax regulations have landed some of the smaller companies in serious trouble.
    Drugs have become a serious problem in a lot of schools.
    This is a very serious offence.
    He's been taken to hospital where his condition is described as serious but stable.
- very ill
- not joking or intended to be funny: 
    Please don't laugh - I'm being serious.
    He was wearing a very serious expression and I knew something was wrong.
    On the surface it's a very funny novel but it does have a more serious underlying theme.
- A serious person is quiet, thinks carefully about things, and does not laugh a lot: 
    I remember her as a very serious child.
- determined to follow a particular plan of action: 
    Is she serious about going to live abroad?
- If two people who have a loving relationship are serious about each other, they intend to stay with each other for a long time and possibly marry: 
    She's had a lot of boyfriends but Simon's the only one she's been serious about.
- needing or deserving your complete attention: 
    That's an interesting job offer - I'd give it some serious consideration if I were you.
    We've got some serious talking to do, you and me.
- extreme in degree or amount: 
    We did some fairly serious walking over the weekend.
    I mean we're talking serious (= a large amount of) money, right?
- very good of its type: 
    This is a serious wine, Belle, you have to try some.

shit /ʃɪt/
- the solid waste that is released from the bowels of a person or animal: 
    There's so much dog shit on the pavement.
- the act of releasing solid waste from the bowels: 
    to have a shit.
- diarrhoea (= a medical condition in which the contents of the bowels are passed out of the body too often): 
    Something I ate has given me the shits.
- nonsense, or something of low quality: 
    She talks a load of shit.
- an unpleasant person who behaves badly: 
    The man's a complete shit.
- insults, criticism, or unkind or unfair treatment: 
    Kyle gets a lot of shit from his parents about the way he dresses.
    Jackie doesn't take (any) shit from anyone (= does not allow anyone to treat her badly).
- used in negatives to mean "anything": 
    He doesn't know shit about what's going on.
- to pass solid waste from the bowels: 
    That dog had better not shit in the house again!
    I need to shit real bad.
- to be extremely frightened: 
    She was shitting herself, especially when he pulled out a gun.
- used to express anger or surprise: 
    Oh shit, we're going to be late!
    Shit - the damn thing's broken!
idioms:
 give sb the shits
 have shit for brains
 have/get your shit together
 no shit!
 not give a shit
 (the) shit hits the fan
 the shit out of sb/sth
 shit a brick
phrasal verbs:
 shit on sb

behind /bɪˈhaɪnd/
- at the back (of): 
    Look behind you!
    I hung my coat behind the door.
    Alex led, and I followed along behind.
    As hard as she tried, she always fell behind the other swimmers in the races.
    I knew that behind (= hidden by) her smile was sadness.
- in the place where someone or something was before: 
    I was annoyed to discover that I'd left my bag behind.
    After the party a few people stayed behind to help clean up.
- slower or later than someone else, or than you should be: 
    The old woman was behind with (= late paying) the rent.
- responsible for or the cause of: 
    He wondered what was behind his neighbour's sudden friendliness.
    Marie Curie was the woman behind enormous changes in the science of chemistry.
- the part of the body on which a person sits: 
    He tripped and fell on his behind.
    Why don't you get off your behind (= stand up) and do something!
idioms:
 be behind sb (all the way)
 be behind sb
 behind every great/successful man there stands a woman
 behind the wheel
 put sth behind you

inside /ɪnˈsaɪd/
- the part, space, or side of something that is inside: 
    Did you clean the inside of the car?
    The hotel looked shabby from the street, but it was fine on the inside.
    the insides of people's houses
- The inside of a part of the body such as the arm or leg is the part facing in towards the rest of the body: 
    She dabbed perfume on the inside of her wrist.
- a person's or animal's internal organs, especially the stomach or bowels: 
    The dead seal's insides were spread all over the snow.
- in or into a room, building, container, or something similar: 
    "Is Anna in the garden?" "No, she's inside (= in the house)."
    What's inside the box?
    Luckily, no one was inside the building when it collapsed.
    She couldn't cope with the grief she felt inside.
    Who can tell what goes on inside his head?
    He put the documents carefully in his inside pocket (= pocket on the inside of a jacket or coat).
- If something is inside out, it has the usual inside part on the outside and the usual outside part on the inside: 
    She had her sweater on inside out.
- If you do something or if something happens inside (of) a particular time or limit, you do it or it happens in less than that amount of time or under the limit: 
    The new faster trains can do the journey inside two hours.
    He finished it inside of two hours.
- (of information) obtained by someone in a group, organization, or company and therefore involving special or secret knowledge: 
    inside information/knowledge
    I'll call up Clare and get the inside story (= a true report of the facts).
- in prison: 
    Her husband's inside for armed robbery.
idioms:
 inside of sth
 know sth inside out
 turn a place inside out
 on the inside
 have the inside track

high /haɪ/
- (especially of things that are not living) being a large distance from top to bottom or a long way above the ground, or having the stated distance from top to bottom: 
    a high building/mountain
    high ceilings
    It's two and a half metres high and one metre wide.
    The corn grew waist-high (= as high as a person's waist) in the fields.
- greater than the usual level or amount: 
    The job demands a high level of concentration.
    He suffers from high blood pressure.
    Antique furniture fetches very high prices these days.
    She got very high marks in her geography exam.
    It's very dangerous to drive at high speed when the roads are wet.
    He's in a high-security prison.
- containing a large quantity of something: 
    I avoid foods that are high in fat.
- very good or very moral standards: 
    She was a woman of high principles.
    She demands very high standards from the people who work for her.
- fast, strong wind: 
    High winds caused delays on the ferries.
- having power, an important position, or great influence: 
    an officer of high rank
- near or at the top of the range of sounds: 
    I can't reach the high notes.
- (of food) smelling bad and no longer good to eat: 
    This meat is rather high - I'm going to throw it out.
- not thinking or behaving normally because of taking drugs: 
    He was high on heroin at the time.
- a higher level than has ever been reached previously: 
    Interest rates have reached an all-time/record high.
- a period of extreme excitement or happiness when you feel full of energy, often caused by a feeling of success, or by drugs or alcohol or a religious experience: 
    Exercise gives you a high.
    She's been on a high ever since she got her article published in the Times.
    There are lots of highs and lows in this job.
- informal for
high school  (when used in the name of a school): 
    I go to Santa Ana High.
- at or to a large distance from the ground: 
    You'll have to hit the ball quite high to get it over that net.
    The new jet flew much higher than most planes.
idioms:
 be as high as a kite
 come/get (down) off your high horse
 get on your high horse
 have it on the highest authority
 high and mighty
 hunt/search high and low
 leave sb high and dry
 live high on/off the hog
 on high

ahead /əˈhed/
- in front: 
    The road ahead is very busy.
    Turn left at the traffic lights, and you'll see the hospital straight ahead.
- having more points, votes, etc. than someone else in a competition, election, etc.: 
    Barcelona was ahead after ten minutes.
- making more progress than someone else: 
    All the children in the class are doing well, but Sophie is way (= far) ahead.
- in or into the future: 
    He couldn't bear to think of the lonely year ahead.
- earlier than or before someone or something: 
    It was already 10 AM in Moscow when the news broke in London that morning, because Moscow is three hours ahead.

wonderful /ˈwʌn.də.fəl/
- extremely good: 
    He's a wonderful cook.
    "Did you know that Daryl's getting married?" "No, I didn't. How wonderful!"
    We had a wonderful time in Italy last summer.

fight /faɪt/
fight | fought | fought
- to use physical force to try to defeat another person or group of people: 
    There were children fighting in the playground.
    The soldiers fought from house to house.
    They fought with (= on the side of) the North against the South.
    The birds were fighting over (= competing for) a scrap of food.
    They fight like cats and dogs (= fight or argue very angrily and violently).
    They fought to the bitter end/to the death (= until everyone on one side was dead or completely defeated).
- to use a lot of effort to defeat or achieve something, or to stop something happening: 
    He fought the disease bravely for three years.
    We need the public's help in fighting crime.
    He fought against racism.
    Vitamin C is thought to help fight colds and flu.
    They had to fight hard for improvements to the road system.
    One of the passengers was fighting for her life (= so ill or injured that she might die) last night after receiving multiple injuries in the collision.
    With debts of over $2 million, the corporation is fighting for its life (= people are trying hard to stop it being destroyed)
    I had to fight (back) (= tried hard not to show or produce) the tears when he said he was leaving.
    The bank fought off (= successfully prevented) a takeover by another bank recently.
    I was getting a cold at the start of the week but I seem to have fought it off (= got rid of it).
- to argue: 
    I wish they wouldn't fight in front of the kids.
    I could hear them fighting about money again.
- an argument or an occasion when someone uses physical force to try to defeat someone: 
    Jeff's always getting into/starting fights.
    The older boys broke up (= stopped) the fight.
    I had a stand-up fight with her (= we argued strongly) about the phone bill.
    Do you have tickets for the big fight (= boxing competition)?
    He put up a fight when the police tried to arrest him.
- a situation in which you use a lot of effort to defeat someone or achieve something, or to stop something happening: 
    We must continue the fight against homelessness.
    He died last week after a long fight with cancer.
    They put up a good fight (= played well) against a more experienced team.
- the wish or ability to fight or act energetically: 
    The team came out on the field full of fight.
idioms:
 fight your corner
 fight a losing battle
 fight fire with fire
 fight it out
 fight shy of
 he who fights and runs away, lives to fight another day
 a fight to the finish
phrasal verbs:
 fight back

past /pɑːst/
- in or to a position that is further than a particular point: 
    I live on Station Road, just past the post office.
    Three boys went past us on mountain bikes.
    Was that Peter who just jogged past in those bright pink shorts?
- used to say what the time is when it is a particular number of minutes after an hour: 
    It's five/ten/a quarter/twenty/twenty-five/half past three.
    I need to leave at twenty past or I'll miss that train.
- above a particular age or further than a particular point: 
    She's past the age where she needs a babysitter.
    Do what you want, I'm past caring (= I don't care any longer).
- used to refer to a period of time before and until the present: 
    The average temperature worldwide has risen by about one degree Fahrenheit in the past 100 years.
    I've been walking three miles a day for the past 30 years.
    He was the fifth climber to die on these mountains over the past two days.
    In centuries/years past (= many centuries/years ago) even visiting the next village was considered a long journey.
- having happened or existed before now: 
    I know from past experience that you can't judge by appearances.
    The prime minister's family have been instructed not to discuss his past life with the press.
- finished: 
    I'm feeling much better now that the cold weather is past.
- of the past tense: 
    "Must" does not have a past form.
- the period before and until, but not including, the present time: 
    Evolution can explain the past, but it can never predict the future.
    In the past, this sort of work was all done by hand.
    By winning the 1500 metres, he joins some of the great names of the past.
- a part of someone's life in which they did unacceptable or dishonest things: 
    He's a man with a past.
- the form of a verb used to describe actions, events, or states that happened or existed before the present time: 
    The past of "change" is "changed".
idioms:
 be past it
 be past your sell-by date
 not put it past sb (to do sth)

cut /kʌt/
cut | present participle cutting | past tense and past participle cut
- to break the surface of something, or to divide or make something smaller, using a sharp tool, especially a knife: 
    to cut a slice of bread
    I cut myself/my hand on that glass/with that knife.
    Cut the meat up into small pieces.
    This knife doesn't cut very well.
    Where did you have your hair cut?
    Firefighters had to cut the trapped driver loose/free (= cut the metal to allow the driver to get out of the car) using special equipment.
    He fell off the swing and cut his head open (= got a deep cut in his head).
    He cut the cake in/into six (pieces) and gave each child a slice.
- to make something shorter, lower, smaller, etc.: 
    to cut prices/costs
    to cut overtime/wages
- to remove something from something else: 
    The sex scenes had been cut out of the TV version of the film.
- to move words or pictures from one place to another in a computer document
- to decide not to leave someone any of your money or possessions when you die
- to not go, especially to a place where you should be: 
    Your son has been cutting classes.
- to stop or interrupt something: 
    to cut an engine/a motor
    "Cut! (= stop filming!)" shouted the director.
- to stop someone from talking before they have finished what they were saying: 
    He started to explain, but she cut him short.
- used to tell someone to stop talking or stop behaving in an annoying way: 
    Just cut it out! I've had enough of your time wasting.
- (of a baby) to grow a new tooth: 
    The baby's cutting a tooth. That's why she's crying.
- to go through or across a place, especially in order to get somewhere quickly: 
    to cut through a passage
- to fail to keep to your own side of the road when going round a corner
- to choose a playing card by dividing a pile of cards into two parts: 
    Who's going to cut the cards?
- to record music or speech on a record: 
    When did the Stones cut their first record?
- an injury made when the skin is cut with something sharp: 
    a deep cut
- a piece of meat cut from a particular part of an animal: 
    Sirloin is the most expensive cut of beef.
- the shape into which something is cut: 
    I don't like the cut of these jeans.
- a reduction in the number, amount, or rate of something: 
    a cut in expenditure/interest rates/hospital waiting lists
- reductions in public spending: 
    Students and workers were out on the streets protesting against the cuts.
- the act of removing a part from a book, film, etc., or a part that is removed: 
    The movie contains some very violent scenes, so some cuts were made when it was shown on TV.
- a share of something, usually money: 
    When am I going to get my cut?
- a deep, narrow passage made through a hill for a road, railway, or canal
idioms:
 can't cut it
 cut your coat according to your cloth
 cut corners
 cut sb dead
 cut sb down to size
 cut a fine figure
 be cut from the same cloth
 cut it/things fine
 cut loose
 cut your losses
 cut no ice with sb
 cut off your nose to spite your face
 cut your political, professional, etc. teeth
 cut sb some slack
 cut a swathe through sth
 cut the crap!
 cut the ground from under sb's feet
 cut to the chase
 cut (sb) to the quick
 be cut up
 cut up rough
 cut both/two ways
 not be cut out for sth
 you could cut the atmosphere with a knife
 a cut above
 cut and thrust
phrasal verbs:
 cut across sth
 cut back
 cut sth back
 cut down
 cut sth down
 cut in
 cut sb in
 cut into sth
 cut sth off
 cut sb off
 cut sb/sth off
 cut sth out
 cut sb out
 cut out
 cut through sth
 cut sth up
 cut sb up
 cut up

quite /kwaɪt/
- completely: 
    The two situations are quite different.
    The colours almost match but not quite.
    I enjoyed her new book though it's not quite as good as her last one.
    Are you quite sure you want to go?
    Quite honestly/frankly, the thought of it terrified me.
- used to express that you are not certain about something: 
    I don't quite know what to say.
    I didn't quite catch what he said.
- used to show agreement with someone's opinion: 
    "You'd think he could spare some money - he's not exactly poor." "Quite."
- used to emphasize the degree or amount of something, or to say that someone or something is impressive, interesting, or unusual: 
    They have been working on this for quite some time.
    That's quite a beard you've grown, young man!
- used for emphasis: 
    It was quite the worst dinner I have ever had.
- a little or a lot but not completely: 
    I'm quite tired but I can certainly walk a little further.
    There was quite a lot of traffic today but yesterday was even busier.
    It was quite a difficult job.
    He's quite attractive but not what I'd call gorgeous.
    It would be quite a nuisance to write to everyone.

number /ˈnʌm.bər/
- (a sign or symbol representing) a unit that forms part of the system of counting and calculating: 
    25, 300, and a billion are all numbers.
    She's very good with numbers (= good at adding, subtracting, etc.).
- a number that is used to mark a particular example of something: 
    They live at number 34 Orchard Street.
    Please write your credit card number on this form.
    What's our flight number?
- a phone number: 
    I gave him my number.
- an amount or total: 
    The number of people killed in traffic accidents fell last month.
    There has been an increasing number of cases of the disease.
    A small number of children are educated at home.
    A large number of invitations has been sent.
    Letters of complaint were surprisingly few in number (= there were not many of them).
- a number of a particular description: 
    Small numbers of children are educated at home.
    Large numbers of invitations were sent.
    Newspapers are produced in vast numbers.
- several of a particular type of thing: 
    I decided not to go, for a number of reasons.
- a group of people: 
    On the trip, one of our number fell ill.
- a particular copy of a magazine: 
    Do you have last week's number of the New Yorker?
    He's got all the back numbers (= previous copies) of the magazine.
- a piece of clothing, especially a dress, that you admire: 
    She was wearing a stylish Dior number.
- a person with a particular characteristic: 
    He's a real sexy number, don't you think?
- a short tune or song: 
    Sing one of those romantic numbers.
- something that is often said: 
    He tried the usual/that old number about how his wife didn't understand him.
- to give something a number in a series and usually to write this number on it: 
    All the folders have been carefully numbered and filed away.
    Number the pages from one to ten.
- If people or things number a particular amount, there are this many of them: 
    After the hurricane the homeless numbered over 200,000.
idioms:
 any number of things
 beyond/without number
 by (sheer) force/weight of numbers
 by numbers
 do a number on sb
 have sb's number
 your number is up
 a numbers game
phrasal verbs:
 number sb/sth among sb/sth

sick /sɪk/
- physically or mentally ill; not well or healthy: 
    a sick child
    a sick cow
    My father has been off sick (= not working because of illness) for a long time.
    Anyone who could hurt a child like that must be sick (= mentally ill).
    The old woman fell/took/was taken sick (= became ill) while she was away and had to come home.
    Sarah called in/reported sick (= told her employer that she was unable to go to work because of illness).
    High rates of crime are considered by some people to be a sign of a sick society.
- feeling ill as if you are going to vomit: 
    Lucy felt sick the morning after the party.
    If you eat any more of that cake, you'll make yourself sick.
- to vomit: 
    She was sick after she ate too much chocolate.
- feeling strong unpleasant emotions, especially anger or disgust: 
    I'm sick at (= unhappy about) not getting that job.
    It makes me sick (= makes me very angry) to see people wearing fur coats.
    It's sick-making (= very annoying) that she's being paid so much for doing so little.
    I'm sick (and tired/to death) of (= very annoyed about) the way you're behaving.
    She was worried sick (= very worried) when her daughter didn't come home on time.
    I felt sick (= felt shocked and disgusted) when I heard about the prisoners being beaten.
- cruel or offensive: 
    Joan was not amused by the sick joke her brother told.
- very good, excellent: 
    snowboarders doing sick tricks
- people who are ill: 
    It's better for the sick to be cared for at home rather than in hospital.
- vomit: 
    a pool of sick on the floor
idioms:
 sick as a dog
 sick as a parrot
 sick at heart
 sick to your stomach

game /ɡeɪm/
- an entertaining activity or sport, especially one played by children, or the equipment needed for such an activity: 
    a board game
    indoor/computer games
    The children played a game of cops and robbers.
    I told the children to put their toys and games away.
- a particular competition, match, or occasion when people play a game: 
    a game of chess/tennis/baseball
- one part of a competition in activities such as tennis: 
    I won the first game, and then lost the next two.
- organized sports activities that children do at school: 
    the games teacher
    It's games this afternoon.
- an organized competition consisting of several different sports events: 
    the Olympic/Commonwealth Games
- the way in which a person plays a particular sport: 
    Susan is playing golf every day to try to improve her game.
- something that is not treated seriously: 
    Love is just a game to him.
- an illegal or secret activity
- a type of business activity: 
    I'm in the stocks and shares game.
- working as a prostitute: 
    She went on the game to pay for her drug habit.
- involved in illegal activities
- wild animals and birds that are hunted for food or sport: 
    game birds
- willing to do things that are new, difficult, or that involve risks: 
    It was a difficult challenge, but Roberta was game.
    She's game for anything.
- to use the rules of a system in order to get what you want, in a way that is slightly dishonest: 
    State education officials deny that they are gaming the system by making their tests easier. 
idioms:
 be ahead of the game
 be new to this game
 be a game of two halves
 game on!
 game over
 the game is up
 the games (that) people play
 give the game away
 is the game worth the candle?
 what's your game?

eat /iːt/
eat | ate | eaten
- to put or take food into the mouth, chew it (= crush it with the teeth), and swallow it: 
    Do you eat meat?
    When I've got a cold, I don't feel like eating.
    We usually eat (= have a meal) at about seven o'clock.
idioms:
 eaten up with/by sth
 eat sb alive
 eat sb for breakfast
 eat your heart out
 eat humble pie
 eat like a bird
 eat like a horse
 eat sb's lunch
 eat sb out of house and home
 eat your words
 have sb eating out of your hand
 I'll eat my hat
 (I'm so hungry), I could eat a horse
 what's eating sb?
phrasal verbs:
 eat away at sth
 eat away at sb
 eat in
 eat into sth
 eat out
 eat (sth) up
 eat up sth

nobody /ˈnəʊ.bə.di/
- not anyone: 
    Is there nobody here who can answer my question?
    I saw nobody all morning.
    Nobody agreed with me.
- someone who is not important: 
    He's just some nobody trying to get noticed by the press.

death /deθ/
- the end of life: 
    The disease causes thousands of deaths a year.
    Do you believe in life after death?
    He never got over the death of his daughter.
    death threats
- extremely bored, frightened, etc.
- until you die: 
    The animals burned to death in the barn.
    He choked to death on a fish bone.
    The traitor was put to death (= killed as a punishment).
- the cause of the end of life, or the end or destruction of something: 
    The failure of the family business was the death of him.
    That child will be the death of me (= is always doing something which upsets me)!
idioms:
 be at death's door
 be in at the death
 catch your death of cold
 look/feel like death warmed up

along /əˈlɒŋ/
- from one part of a road, river, etc. to another: 
    a romantic walk along the beach/river
- in a line next to something long: 
    a row of houses along the river
    Cars were parked all along the road.
- at a particular place on a road, river, etc.: 
    Somewhere along this road there's a garage.
- moving forward: 
    We were just walking along, chatting.
- with you: 
    Why don't you take him along with you when you go?
    I'll bring some food along and we can have a picnic.
- in addition to someone or something else: 
    California, along with Florida and Hawaii, is among the most popular US tourist destinations.
idioms:
 all along
 come/go/be along for the ride
 along the way

finally /ˈfaɪ.nəl.i/
- after a long time or some difficulty: 
    We finally got home at midnight.
    After months of looking he finally found a job.
- used especially at the beginning of a sentence to introduce the last point or idea: 
    Finally, I'd like to thank everyone for coming this evening.
- in a way that will not be changed: 
    The plan hasn't been finally approved.

upset /ʌpˈset/
upset | present participle upsetting | past tense and past participle upset
- to make someone worried, unhappy, or angry: 
    It still upsets him when he thinks about the accident.
    Don't upset yourself by thinking about what might have been.
- to change the usual or expected state or order of something, especially in a way that stops it from happening or working: 
    Any mechanical problems would upset our plans of driving across the desert.
- to push or knock something out of its usual position, usually by accident, especially causing it to fall: 
    Our dog upset the picnic table, spilling food everywhere.
- to make someone feel slightly sick: 
    He can't eat grapes - they upset him/his stomach.
- worried, unhappy, or angry: 
    Don't get upset about the dress - there's only a little stain on it.
    She was very upset to hear that the party had been cancelled.
    He was very upset that you didn't reply to his emails.
- If you have an upset stomach you feel slightly ill, especially because of something you have eaten or drunk: 
    I have an upset stomach/tummy - serves me right for eating so much.
- confusion and problems: 
    How much upset will the new monitoring procedures cause?
- an occasion when someone beats the team or player that was expected to win: 
    It would be quite an upset if the favourite didn't win.
- a slight illness of the stomach: 
    Melanie has a stomach/tummy upset so she won't be going to school today.
idioms:
 upset the apple cart

seem /siːm/
- to give the effect of being; to be judged to be: 
    He's 16, but he often seems (to be) younger.
    The children seemed (as if/as though/like they were) tired.
    I suspect his claims are not all they seem - he tends to exaggerate.
    Things are seldom as/how/what they seem.
    I seem to know more about him than anyone else.
    They seem to be taking a long time to decide.
    It seems (that) she can't come.
    It seems to me (that) (= I think that) he isn't the right person for the job.
    It would seem (that) no action need be taken.
    There seems to have been a mistake - my name isn't on the list.
    "There's no reply - they've all gone home." "So it seems."
    "Was a decision made?" "It seems not/so."

safe /seɪf/
- not in danger or likely to be harmed: 
    In some cities you don't feel safe going out alone at night.
- not harmed or damaged: 
    She said that all the hostages were safe.
- completely safe and without injury or damage: 
    After three days lost in the mountains, all the climbers arrived home safe and sound.
- not dangerous or likely to cause harm: 
    a safe play area for children
    a safe driver
    That ladder doesn't look safe.
    She wished us a safe journey.
    Is this medicine safe for children?
    It's safe to cross the road now.
- (of a place) where something is not likely to be lost or stolen: 
    Keep your passport in a safe place.
- used to refer to things that do not involve any risk: 
    I think we should go for the safest option (= the one that involves the least risks).
    He never remembers my birthday, so it's a safe bet (= I am certain) he'll forget again this time!
- If an official elected position in is safe, it is likely to be won by the political party that has won it at previous elections: 
    a safe Conservative seat
- used to say that you like and approve of someone or something: 
    He was a safe guy. He was decent, kind and caring, he put others before himself.
- used to show that you agree or are happy with something: 
    "You OK?" "Safe, man," Shaun muttered.
- a strong box or cupboard with special locks where valuable things, especially money or jewels (= precious stones), are kept: 
    Thieves broke into/cracked (= opened by force) the safe and stole everything in it.
idioms:
 as safe as houses
 in safe hands
 it's safe to say (that)
 (just) to be on the safe side

children /ˈtʃɪl.drən/
- plural of child

front /frʌnt/
- the part of a building, object, or person's body that faces forward or is most often seen or used: 
    The front of the museum is very impressive.
    He spilled soup all down the front of his shirt.
    He was lying on his front.
    The actor walked out to the front of the stage.
    The shop front occupies a very prominent position on the main street.
- the part of a vehicle that is nearest to its direction of movement: 
    Do you want to sit in the front (= next to the driver)?
    If we sit near the front of the bus, we'll have a better view.
- the outside part or cover of a book, newspaper, or magazine: 
    There was a picture of the Trevi fountain on the front of the book.
- one of the first pages in a book: 
    There's an inscription in the front of the book.
- further forward than someone or something else: 
    The car in front suddenly stopped and I slammed on the brakes.
    She started talking to the man in front of her.
- winning a game or competition: 
    By half time the Italians were well in front.
- close to the front part of something: 
    There's parking space in front of the hotel.
- where someone can see or hear you: 
    Please don't swear in front of the children.
- If you give someone an amount of money up front, you pay that person before they do something for you: 
    He wants all the money up front or he won't do the job.
- a particular area of activity: 
    How are things on the work front? (= Is the situation at work satisfactory?)
    She's very creative on the design front (= she is very good at design).
- the character or qualities that a person or organization appears to have in public that are different from their real character or qualities, and whose purpose is often to deceive people or hide an illegal activity: 
    Don't be fooled by his kindness and sensitivity - it's just a front.
    She presents such a cheerful front that you'd never guess she's ill.
    The machinery company was a front operation for arms smuggling.
    Several trading companies were set up in the early 1960s to act as fronts for money-laundering operations.
- land near the sea or a lake, or the part of a town near the beach that often has a wide road or path along it: 
    Let's go for a stroll along the front.
    The company specializes in building lake-front property.
- the place where two masses of air that have different temperatures meet: 
    A cold/warm front is approaching from the west.
- the place where fighting takes place in a war: 
    He was a soldier on the Western front in World War I.
- in or at the front of something: 
    One of his front teeth is missing.
    I'd like seats on the front row.
    a dog's front paws
- If a building or area fronts (onto) a particular place, it is near it and faces it: 
    All the apartments front onto the sea.
- to lead an organization or group of musicians: 
    She fronts a large IT company.
- If a building is fronted with something, its surface is covered with it: 
    The kitchen has oak cabinets fronted with glass.
- a group of people sharing a political belief who perform actions in public to achieve their aims: 
    The National Front is an extremely right-wing political party in Britain.
    The Animal Liberation Front has claimed responsibility for releasing the monkeys from the laboratory.
idioms:
 out front
 on the front burner
phrasal verbs:
 front for sth

shot /ʃɒt/
- past simple and past participle of shoot
- a kick, hit, or throw of the ball that is intended to score points in a sport such as cricket, football, tennis, or golf: 
    And that was a great shot by Márquez!
    Murray drove a forehand shot down the line to win the match.
- the action of firing a gun or another weapon: 
    He fired four shots at the car as it drove off.
- someone who is skilled/not skilled at aiming and firing a gun
- an attempt to do or achieve something that you have not done before: 
    I thought I'd have a shot at making my own wine.
    I've never tried bowling before, but I thought I'd give it a shot.
- a photograph: 
    I got/took some really good shots of the harbour at sunset.
- a short piece in a film in which there is a single action or a short series of actions
- a small amount of a strong alcoholic drink: 
    a shot of whisky
    They were at the bar doing shots (= drinking many small, strong alcoholic drinks).
- a small amount of a non-alcoholic drink with a strong taste or effect: 
    He downed a shot of espresso.
    I like my coffee with a shot of vanilla.
    You can make your own healthy orange and turmeric shots.
- the amount of a drug that is put into the body by a single injection: 
    The doctor gave him a shot of morphine.
- a heavy metal ball thrown in a sports competition
- a mass of small metal balls that are shot from a gun: 
    Shotgun cartridges contain lead shot.
- (of silk) having small threads of a colour in it, so that the main colour appears to change depending on the angle at which the cloth is seen: 
    Her evening dress is made of green shot silk.
- no longer working or effective: 
    It's no good - these gears are shot.
- to get rid of or free of something, or to leave something: 
    I can't wait to get shot of this office for a week.
    I suspect he left home to get shot of that awful mother of his.
idioms:
 a shot in the arm
 a shot in the dark
 give sth your best shot
 like a shot
 be shot through with sth

love /lʌv/
- to like another adult very much and be romantically and sexually attracted to them, or to have strong feelings of liking a friend or person in your family: 
    I love you.
    Last night he told me he loved me.
    I've only ever loved one man.
    I'm sure he loves his kids.
- to like something very much: 
    She loves animals.
    I absolutely love chocolate.
    He really loves his job.
    I love skiing.
    Love it or hate it, reality TV is here to stay.
- used, often in requests, to say that you would very much like something: 
    I'd love a cup of coffee if you're making one.
    She would dearly love to start her own business.
    I'd love you to come to dinner next week.
    I'd love for you to come to dinner next week.
- the feeling of liking another adult very much and being romantically and sexually attracted to them, or strong feelings of liking a friend or person in your family: 
    "I've been seeing him over a year now." "Is it love?"
    Children need to be shown lots of love.
    "I'm seeing Laura next week." "Oh, please give her my love" (= tell her I am thinking about her with affection).
    Maggie asked me to send her love to you and the kids (= tell you that she is thinking about you with affection).
    How's your love life (= your romantic and/or sexual relationships) these days?
- a person that you love and feel attracted to: 
    He was the love of my life.
    She was my first love.
- used as a friendly form of address: 
    You look tired, love.
    That'll be four pounds exactly, love.
- used before your name at the end of letters, cards, etc. to friends or family: 
    See you at Christmas. Love, Kate.
- to love someone in a romantic and sexual way: 
    I'm in love for the first time and it's wonderful.
    They're still madly in love (with each other).
- to start to love someone romantically and sexually: 
    I was 20 when I first fell in love.
- strong liking for: 
    I don't share my boyfriend's love of cooking.
- something that you like very much: 
    Music is one of her greatest loves.
- (in tennis) the state of having no points: 
    The score now stands at 40–love.
idioms:
 love sb to bits
 love me, love my dog
 be no/little love lost between
 for love nor money
 make love
 make love to sb

clear /klɪər/
- easy to understand, hear, read, or see: 
    clear instructions/directions
    Can we make the sound any clearer?
    Our new television has a very clear picture.
- something you say in order to emphasize what you have just said, or to express your authority: 
    I will not tolerate this behaviour any longer. Do I make myself clear?
- certain, having no doubt, or obvious: 
    He isn't at all clear about what he wants to do with his life.
    It is rapidly becoming clear (to me) (that) I'm not suited to being a teacher.
    It isn't clear how long the strike will go on for.
    It's a clear case of corruption.
    You've made your position quite clear (= there is no doubt about what you think).
- pure or easy to see through, with no marks or areas that are less transparent: 
    clear glass
    The water in the lake is so clear that you can see the bottom.
    We could see hundreds of stars in the clear desert sky.
    She has a beautifully clear skin/complexion (= with no marks or spots).
    The weather is expected to remain clear for the next few days.
    You can see the mountains from here on a clear day.
- used to describe a pleasant, pure sound: 
    the clear sound of the flute
- used to describe something that you remember easily: 
    I have clear memories of visiting my grandfather's farm as a child.
- not covered or blocked by anything: 
    We have a clear view of the ocean from our hotel window.
    The journey was quite quick because the road was clear (= there was not much traffic on it).
    I always like to leave my desk clear (= with no work on it) at the end of the day.
- not busy or filled by any planned activity: 
    The only time I have clear next week is Tuesday afternoon.
    We've got two clear (= whole) weeks in which to finish the decorating.
- without being or feeling guilty: 
    to have a clear conscience
- free from confusion; able to think quickly and well: 
    Marie is good at making decisions because she's a very clear thinker.
- without problems or difficulties: 
    This is the first time in his life that he's been clear of (= without) debt.
- used to describe an amount of money that is left after all necessary payments have been made: 
    The school summer fair made a clear profit of £1,500.
    Bill earns a clear $400 a week/earns $400 a week clear.
- not touching something, or away from something: 
    Only one competitor made a clear jump of the highest fence (= jumped over it without touching it).
    When we're clear of the main road, we'll stop for our picnic.
- to remove or get rid of whatever is blocking or filling something, or to stop being blocked or full: 
    It took several hours to clear the road after the accident.
    I'll make the coffee if you'll clear the table.
    If you use this nasal spray, your nose should clear.
    After my aunt died, we arranged for her house to be cleared (= for the furniture to be removed from it).
    If you press this key, the computer screen will clear (= the text and pictures will be removed from it).
    Shops are currently holding sales to clear their summer stock (= get rid of goods by selling them cheaply).
    Paul helped his elderly neighbour by clearing her path of snow/clearing snow from her path.
    Could you clear your things off/from the sofa?
    I never leave work until I've cleared my in-tray (= have finished the work that needs to be done).
- to give a small cough: 
    She cleared her throat nervously before she began to speak.
- to prove that someone is not guilty of something that they were accused of: 
    After many years in prison, the men were finally cleared of the bombings.
- to give official permission for something: 
    Despite local opposition, the plans for the new supermarket have been cleared by the council.
    Ladies and gentlemen, air-traffic control has now cleared the plane for take-off.
    I don't know if I can get the car tonight - I'll have to clear it with Mum.
- to satisfy the official conditions of something: 
    Before you can enter the country, you have to clear customs.
- to become or make something pure or easy to see through: 
    The children enjoyed stirring the mud at the bottom of the pond, then watching the water slowly clear again.
    Your skin would clear (= become free of spots) if you had a healthier diet.
    After the thunderstorm, the sky cleared (= stopped being cloudy).
    The fog is expected to have cleared (away) (= gone) by midday.
- to make your mind free from confusion so that you can think quickly and well: 
    I need to get some fresh air to clear my head (= to make me able to think well).
- to pay back all the money that you owe
- to have an amount of money left from your earnings after any necessary payments, charges, taxes, etc.: 
    Bill clears $200 a week.
- to (cause a cheque to) go from one bank to another through a central organization, so that money can be paid to the person it is owed to: 
    It usually takes four to five working days for a cheque to clear.
- to jump or go over something without touching it: 
    The horse cleared the fence with inches to spare.
- not touching, or away from: 
    Stand clear of the doors, please.
    Make sure you park clear of the kerb.
    The children were saved from the fire only because a neighbour pulled them clear.
- to avoid something or someone: 
    His parents warned him to steer clear of trouble.
idioms:
 (as) clear as a bell
 (as) clear as day
 (as) clear as mud
 clear the air
 clear the decks
 clear the way
phrasal verbs:
 clear sth away
 clear sb off sth
 clear off
 clear out
 clear sth out
 clear (sth) up
 clear sth up
 clear up

hot /hɒt/
hot | hotter | hottest
- having a high temperature: 
    a hot, sunny day
    hot weather
    a hot drink/meal
    It's too hot in here, can we turn down the heating?
    Bake the cake in a hot oven, about 220°C, for 30 minutes.
    The food was piping hot (= very hot).
- used to describe food that causes a burning feeling in the mouth: 
    a hot curry
    hot, spicy food
- used to describe a subject that causes a lot of disagreement or discussion: 
    Global warming has become a very hot issue.
- new and exciting: 
    Hollywood's hottest new actress
    hot gossip
    This 21-year-old actor has become Hollywood's hottest property.
- knowing a lot or skilful: 
    I'm not too hot on Russian history.
- an accurate piece of advice about who will win a race: 
    Do you have any hot tips for this afternoon's race?
- the person or animal that is most likely to win a race, competition, election, etc.: 
    He's the hot favourite to win the election.
- to think that a particular thing is very important and to demand that it is done well or correctly: 
    They're very hot on dress at work so she always looks very smart for the office.
- Hot goods have been recently stolen and are therefore difficult to sell or dangerous to deal with because the police are still looking for them.
- sexually attractive, or feeling sexually excited: 
    She's really hot!
    I'm hot for you, baby.
    I've got a hot date tonight.
- If someone has a hot temper, they are easily made angry.
idioms:
 be hot on sb's track/trail
 be hot stuff
 be in hot water
 be too hot to handle
 go/sell like hot cakes
 hot air
 (all) hot and bothered
 hot and heavy
 hot dog!
 hot off the press
 hot to trot
 hot under the collar
 in hot pursuit
 in the hot seat

six /sɪks/
- the number 6: 
    Look for a bus with a number six on the front of it.
    "How many grandchildren do you have now?" "I've got six."
- in cricket, six runs (= points) scored when the player hits the ball to the edge of the playing area without it touching the ground first: 
    Richards hit a six.
idioms:
 at sixes and sevens
 be six feet under
 six of one and half a dozen of the other
 six of the best

drink /drɪŋk/
- (an amount of) liquid that is taken into the body through the mouth: 
    Would you like a drink of water/tea/juice?
    They'd had no food or drink for two days.
- alcoholic liquid: 
    Do we have time for a quick drink?
    Whose turn is it to buy the drinks?
    We ran out of drink at the party.
- a party at which you have drinks, especially alcoholic drinks: 
    Come for drinks on Saturday.
    We're having a small drinks party for one of our colleagues who's leaving next week.
- to take liquid into the body through the mouth: 
    He drank three glasses of water.
    The animals came down to the waterhole to drink.
- to drink alcohol: 
    "Would you like a glass of wine?" "No thanks, I don't drink."
    I didn't drink at all while I was pregnant.
idioms:
 drink like a fish
 drink sb under the table
 take to drink
phrasal verbs:
 drink sth in
 drink to sth
 drink (sth) up

absolutely /ˌæb.səˈluːt.li/
- completely: 
    I believed/trusted him absolutely.
    You must be absolutely silent or the birds won't appear.
    We've achieved absolutely nothing today.
- used for adding force to a strong adjective that is not usually used with "very" or to a verb expressing strong emotion: 
    It's absolutely impossible to work with all this noise.
    The food was absolutely disgusting/delicious.
    I absolutely loathe/adore jazz.
- used as a strong way of saying "yes": 
    "It was an excellent film, though." "Absolutely!"
- used as a strong way of saying "no": 
    "Are you too tired to continue?" "Absolutely not!"

how /haʊ/
- in what way, or by what methods: 
    How do we get to the town from here?
    How did you hear about the concert?
    How does this machine work?
    How do you plan to spend your holiday?
    Roz doesn't know how to ride a bicycle.
    It all depends on how you look at it.
    I don't care about fashion, I dress how I please.
    I was horrified to hear about how (= the way) she had been treated.
    How can/could he be so stupid?
    I don't know how anyone could think that way.
- used to ask about someone's physical or emotional state: 
    How is your mother?
    How are you feeling this morning?
- used in questions that ask what an experience or event was like: 
    How was your flight?
    How did you find the lecture? (= did you think it was good)?
    How did you like the concert (= did you enjoy it)?
    She didn't say how far it is (= what the distance is) to her house.
    How long are you going to be (= what amount of time are you going to spend) in the bathroom?
    Do you know how many (= what number of) people are coming?
    How much does this cost (= what is its price)?
    How old is his daughter (= what age is she)?
    "Can you lift this case?" "It depends on how heavy it is."
    Do you remember how (= the fact that) we used to see every new film as soon as it came out?
- used for emphasis: 
    I can't tell you how pleased I am (= I am very pleased) that you came.
    How (= it is very) nice to see you!
    "She paid for everything." "How (= that was very) generous."
- used to emphasize that something is strange, stupid, etc.
- used to ask someone if they are well and happy: 
    "Hi, Lucy, how are you?" "Fine, thanks, how are you?"
- used as greetings
- used when you want someone to explain what they have just said: 
    "I think we need to reconsider our position." "How do you mean?"
- used when asking if something you have done for someone is satisfactory: 
    Let me put a cushion behind your back. How's that?
- used to show that you feel the same way as someone: 
    "I'll be so glad when this project is finished." "And how!"
idioms:
 how about...?
 how about that?
 how come?
 how do you do?
 how do you do
 how's you?

sweet /swiːt/
- (especially of food or drink) having a taste similar to that of sugar; not bitter or salty: 
    The pineapple was sweet and juicy.
    I prefer salty snacks to sweet ones.
- If an emotion or event is sweet, it is very pleasant and satisfying: 
    She was enjoying the sweet smell of success.
- If a sound is sweet, it is pleasant and easy to like: 
    She has a sweet singing voice.
- (especially of something or someone small) pleasant and attractive: 
    They live in a sweet little house.
    What a sweet baby!
- kind and pleasant: 
    I think Alex is really sweet.
    It was sweet of you to help me.
- a small piece of sweet food, made of sugar: 
    She bought a packet of sweets to suck on the way.
- any food with a lot of sugar in it: 
    No cake, thanks. I'm trying to avoid sweets.
- sweet food eaten at the end of a meal: 
    There was only one sweet on the menu - chocolate cake with cream.
- used to show that you are happy about something or think it is good: 
    "I got free tickets to the gig." "Sweet!"
idioms:
 be sweet on sb
 keep sb sweet
 sweet fanny adams
 my sweet

alive /əˈlaɪv/
- living, not dead: 
    He must be 90 if he's still alive.
    Doctors kept him alive on a life-support machine.
    She's alive and well and living in New Zealand.
- If something is alive, it continues to exist: 
    Relatives of the missing sailors are struggling to keep their hopes alive.
idioms:
 alive to sth
 alive with sth
 be alive and well/kicking
 come alive

sense /sens/
- an ability to understand, recognize, value, or react to something, especially any of the five physical abilities to see, hear, smell, taste, and feel: 
    With her excellent sense of smell, she could tell if you were a smoker from the other side of the room.
    My cold is so bad I've lost my sense of smell/taste (= I can't smell/taste anything).
- a general feeling or understanding: 
    Did you get any sense of how they might react?
    The helicopters hovering overhead added to the sense of urgency.
- the ability to enjoy life and not be too serious: 
    Don't be angry - it was just a joke - where's your sense of fun?
- your ability to understand funny things: 
    She has a really good sense of humour.
    We have the same sense of humour.
    Come on, lighten up! Where's your sense of humour?
- the feeling people have when there is a very important event or celebration: 
    The decorations, flowers, and crowds gave the town a real sense of occasion.
- the characteristic of having good judgment, especially when it is based on practical ideas or understanding: 
    I hope they'll have the (good) sense/have enough sense to shut the windows before they leave.
    It makes (good) sense to buy a big pack because it works out cheaper in the end.
    There's no sense in waiting (= it is not practical to wait) - the next train isn't for two hours.
    Where's/What's the sense (= what is the advantage) in paying someone when you could get a volunteer?
    Planning so far ahead makes no sense - so many things will have changed by next year.
- the ability to use good judgment: 
    Have you taken leave of/lost your senses? (= Have you lost your ability to make a good judgment?)
    It's time you came to your senses (= started to use your good judgment) and realized that they are not going to help you.
    The accident brought him to his senses (= caused him to use his good judgment again) and made him stop drinking.
- one of the possible meanings of a word or phrase: 
    They are not immigrants, at least not in any sense that I understand.
    The packaging is green - in both senses of the word (= it is green in colour and it is good for the environment).
    Security defined in the broad/broadest sense of the term means getting at the root causes of trouble and helping to reduce regional conflicts.
    This passage doesn't make (any) sense (= the meaning is not clear).
    I've read the letter twice, but I can't make (any) sense of it (= I can't understand it).
- in every way or feature: 
    It's a book which is, in every sense, about different ways of seeing the world.
- thinking about something in one way, but not in every way: 
    She claims that the system is at fault and she's right, in a sense (= she is partly right).
- not at all: 
    We are in no sense obliged to agree to this.
- to feel or experience something without being able to explain exactly how: 
    Although she said nothing, I could sense her anger
    He sensed something was about to happen.
    He sensed (that) his guests were bored, although they were listening politely.
    Could you sense what was likely to happen?

happen /ˈhæp.ən/
- (of a situation or an event) to have existence or come into existence: 
    No one knows exactly what happened but several people have been hurt.
    Anything could happen in the next half hour.
    A funny thing happened in the office today.
    I don't want to think about what might have happened if he'd been driving any faster.
- If something happens to someone or something, it has an effect on him, her, or it: 
    I don't know what I'd do if anything happened to him (= if he was hurt, became ill, or died).
    What happened to your jacket? There's a big rip in the sleeve.
    What's happened to my pen? (= Where is it?) I put it down there a few moments ago.
- to do or be by chance: 
    They happened to look (= looked by chance) in the right place almost immediately.
    Fortunately it happened (that) there was no one in the house at the time of the explosion.
    It just so happens that I have her phone number right here.
    She happens to like cleaning (= she likes cleaning, although that is surprising).
    I happen to think he's right (= I do think so, although you do not).
    As it happened (= although it was not planned), I had a few minutes to spare.
- perhaps: 
    Happen it'll rain later on.
phrasal verbs:
 happen along/by (somewhere)
 happen on/upon sth/sb

special /ˈspeʃ.əl/
- not ordinary or usual: 
    The car has a number of special safety features.
    Is there anything special that you'd like to do today?
    Passengers should tell the airline in advance if they have any special dietary needs.
    I don't expect special treatment - I just want to be treated fairly.
    Full details of the election results will be published in a special edition of tomorrow's newspaper.
    I have a suit for special occasions.
    There's a special offer on peaches (UK also peaches are on special offer) (= they are being sold at a reduced price) this week.
- especially great or important, or having a quality that most similar things or people do not have: 
    Could I ask you a special favour?
    I'm cooking something special for her birthday.
- having a particular purpose: 
    Firefighters use special breathing equipment in smoky buildings.
    Some of the children have special educational needs.
    You need special tyres on your car for snow.
    She works as a special adviser to the president.
- a television programme that is made for a particular reason or occasion and is not part of a series: 
    a three-hour election night special
- a dish that is available in a restaurant on a particular day that is not usually available: 
    Today's specials are written on the board.
- a product that is being sold at a reduced price for a short period: 
    Today's specials include T-shirts for only $2.99.

bet /bet/
bet | present participle betting | past tense and past participle bet
- to risk money on the result of an event or a competition, such as a horse race, in the hope of winning more money: 
    He regularly goes to the races and bets heavily.
    She bet £500,000 on the horse that came in second.
    I bet you $25 (that) I'll get there before you.
- If you say you bet (someone) that something is true or will happen, you mean you are certain that it is true or will happen: 
    I bet you (that) she's missed the bus.
    I bet (that) he won't come.
- an amount of money that you risk on the result of an event or a competition, such as a horse race: 
    She had a bet on the race.
    He placed/put a bet on the grey horse.
- a guess or opinion: 
    My bet is (that) their baby will be a girl.
idioms:
 bet big on sth/sb
 bet the farm/ranch
 (how much) do you want to bet?
 don't bet on it
 I bet
 what do you bet?
 you bet
 you can bet your life
 be a fair bet
 be a good bet
 be a safe bet
 be your best bet
 do sth for a bet

blood /blʌd/
- the red liquid that is sent around the body by the heart, and carries oxygen and important substances to organs and tissue, and removes waste products: 
    He lost a lot of blood in the accident.
- to allow a trained person to take some blood from your body so that it can be stored and is ready to be given to people who have lost a lot of blood in an accident or operation
- family relationship by birth rather than marriage: 
    They are related by blood.
    She has Russian blood (= one or more of her relatives was Russian).
- to give someone their first experience of something: 
    They decided to blood him in the international team at the age of only 18.
idioms:
 be after sb's blood
 be in the/sb's blood
 blood and guts
 blood is thicker than water
 sb's blood is up
 get blood out of/from a stone
 have (sb's) blood on your hands
 make sb's blood boil
 make sb's blood run cold
 new/fresh blood

lie /laɪ/
- to be in or move into a horizontal position on a surface: 
    to lie in bed
    to lie on a beach
    to lie on your side
    A cat lay in front of the fire.
    He lies awake at night, worrying.
    A pen lay on the desk.
- If something lies in a particular place, position, or direction, it is in that place, position, or direction: 
    There's an old pair of shoes of yours lying at/in the bottom of the wardrobe.
    The river lies 30 km to the south.
    The team is lying third in the league.
    Here lies the body of Mary Taylor (= this is where Mary Taylor is buried).
    There are several houses lying empty in the town.
    The town lay in ruins.
    The ship lies off (= is positioned near) the coast of Spain.
- to exist: 
    The hardest part of the competition still lies ahead of us.
- If responsibility, blame, a decision, a choice, etc. lies with someone, they have responsibility, must make the decision, etc.: 
    Responsibility for the disaster must ultimately lie with the government.
    Where does the blame lie?
- When the dead body of an important person lies in state, it is arranged so that the public can see and honour it before it is buried.
- to say or write something that is not true in order to deceive someone: 
    Are you lying to me?
    Don't trust her - she's lying.
    I suspect he lies about his age.
- something you say that you know is not true: 
    I told a lie when I said I liked her haircut.
idioms:
 lie doggo
 lie down on the job
 lie low
 lie through your teeth
 not take sth lying down
 be a pack of lies
 give the lie to sth
 I tell a lie
 the lie of the land
phrasal verbs:
 lie around
 lie back
 lie behind sth
 lie down
 lie in
 lie in sth
 lie up

full /fʊl/
- (of a container or a space) holding or containing as much as possible or a lot: 
    This cup is very full so be careful with it.
    My plate was already full.
    I tried to get in the cinema last night but it was full.
    Don't talk with your mouth full!
    The shelves were full of books.
    When she looked at him her eyes were full of tears.
    I tried to get on the 8.45 train but it was full.
    Don't fill your glass too full or you'll spill it.
    The stadium was only half full.
- containing a lot of things or people or a lot of something: 
    This sweater is full of holes.
    His essay was full of spelling errors.
    I'm full of admiration for you.
    You're always so full of energy.
- involving a lot of activities: 
    I've got a full week next week - could we postpone our meeting?
    She has a very full life.
- to be talking or thinking a lot about something that you have enjoyed or found exciting: 
    "Did the kids enjoy their trip to the zoo?" "Oh, yes, they were full of it when they got back this afternoon."
- to think and act as if you are very important: 
    Since he got his new job, he's been very full of his own importance.
- to think that you are very important in a way that annoys other people: 
    I can't stand her - she's so full of herself.
- complete, whole, or containing a lot of detail: 
    Please give your full name and address.
    We do not yet have full details of the story.
    Few journalists have managed to convey the full horror of the situation.
    Scientists have not yet determined the full impact of the oil spill.
    Today's my last full day in Paris.
    He unwound the rope to its full extent.
    Are you a full member (= do you have all the membership rights) of the club?
    Some plants need to be in full sun (= to have the sun shining on them) all the time.
- completely: 
    The bill must be paid in full by the end of the month.
- If an activity is in full flow, it is happening fast and with energy: 
    Preparations for the event are now in full flow.
- If an event is in full swing, it has already been happening for a period of time and there is a lot of activity: 
    The party was in full swing by the time we arrived.
- able to be seen by other people: 
    Andy kissed Vicki full on the lips in full view of her friends.
- the greatest possible: 
    James is very bright, but he doesn't make full use of his abilities.
    Nobody got full marks (= all the answers right) in the spelling test.
    It doesn't seem likely that we will see a return to full employment (= that all the people in the country will have a job) in the near future.
- having eaten so much food that you cannot eat any more: 
    No more cake for me, thanks, I'm full.
- having recently eaten: 
    Never go swimming on a full stomach.
- (of clothing) loose or containing a lot of material, or (of parts of the body) quite large and rounded: 
    a full skirt
    Women often have full faces/become full in the face when they're pregnant.
    Her full lips curved into a smile.
- used to avoid saying "fat": 
    They advertise clothes "for the fuller figure".
- (of a flavour, sound, smell, etc.) strong or deep: 
    This wine has a full fruity flavour.
    A cello has a fuller sound than a violin.
- to understand a situation completely: 
    You know full well that you're not supposed to go there without asking me!
- straight; directly: 
    He was kicked full in the stomach.
    The intruders turned and ran as the police shone their torches full on them.
- as much or as well as possible: 
    She certainly lives life to the full.
idioms:
 (at) full blast
 (at) full speed/tilt/pelt
 (at) full steam
 (at) full stretch
 be full of beans
 be full of the joys of spring
 be in full cry
 come/go/turn full circle
 full marks to sb
 full steam ahead

meeting /ˈmiː.tɪŋ/
- a planned occasion when people come together to discuss something: 
    We're having a meeting on Thursday to discuss the problem.
    I'm sorry but she's in a meeting - I'll ask her to call you back later.
- an occasion when people meet each other, especially when this was not planned: 
    A chance (= not intended) meeting with a publisher on an airplane had launched his career.
    I liked him from our first meeting.
- a group of people who have met for a particular purpose: 
    The meeting wants to look at the proposal again.
- a sports competition
idioms:
 a meeting of minds

dear /dɪər/
- loved or liked very much: 
    She was a very dear friend.
    He was very dear to me.
    This place is very dear to me - we came here on our honeymoon.
    What a dear (= very attractive) little kitten!
    My dear Gina - how nice to see you!
- used at the beginning of a letter to greet the person you are writing to: 
    Dear Kerry/Mum and Dad/Ms Smith/Sir
- costing too much: 
    The food was good but very dear.
- used in expressions of anger, disappointment, sadness, or surprise: 
    Oh dear! I've lost my keys again.
    Dear me, it's already 4.30 and I said I'd be home by 5.00!
    Dearie me, what a mess!
- a kind person: 
    Annie's such a dear - she's brought me breakfast in bed every morning this week.
- used to address someone you love or are being friendly to, not used between men: 
    Here's your receipt, dear.
    Would you like a drink, dear?
    Lovely to see you, my dear.
idioms:
 for dear life

coffee /ˈkɒf.i/
- a dark brown powder with a strong flavour and smell that is made by crushing coffee beans, or a hot drink made from this powder: 
    decaffeinated coffee
    fresh/instant coffee
    a cup of coffee
    Would you get some coffee when you go shopping?
    If I drink too much coffee, I can't sleep.
    Can I get you a coffee (= cup of coffee)?
    I'd like a black coffee (= a cup of coffee without milk), please.
    Do you take (= drink) your coffee white (= with milk)?

sound /saʊnd/
- something that you can hear or that can be heard: 
    They could hear the sound of a bell tolling in the distance.
    She stood completely still, not making a sound.
    Suddenly we heard a loud knocking sound from the engine.
    Sound can travel over very large distances in water.
- the activity of recording and broadcasting sound such as from a performance of music or for a film: 
    a sound engineer/recording
- the volume or quality of the sound of a television or film: 
    Could you turn the sound down/up on the TV?
- the particular quality of the music that a musician or a group of musicians produce: 
    The band's sound is a distinctive mixture of funk and rap.
- how something seems to be, from what is said or written: 
    I like the sound of the beef in red wine sauce.
    By/From the sound of it I don't think it was her fault.
    I'm going to be talking to over 90 people? I don't like the sound of that!
- a passage of sea connecting two larger areas of sea, or an area of sea mostly surrounded by land: 
    the Kalmar Sound
- to seem good, interesting, strange, etc. from what is said or written: 
    Your job sounds really interesting.
    I know it sounds silly, but I'll miss him when he's gone.
- to seem like something, from what is said or written: 
    That sounds like a good idea.
    It sounds like you've got a sore throat.
    It sounds as if they had a good holiday.
    You're going skiing with three friends? That sounds like fun.
- to seem angry, happy, rude, etc. when you speak: 
    He sounded very depressed when we spoke on the phone yesterday.
    At the press conference, he sounded at his most relaxed.
- to make a noise: 
    If the alarm sounds, leave the building immediately.
    It sounds like a bird.
    He sounds (= speaks) just like someone I used to work with.
    Sounding the car's horn, she drove at high speed through the crowded streets.
- to cause a noise to be made or say or shout a message to warn people about something: 
    Quick, sound the alarm - there's a fire in the machine room!
- to measure the depth of a mass of water, such as the sea, usually by sonar
- not broken or damaged; healthy; in good condition: 
    It's an old building but it's still structurally sound.
    Considering his age, his body is surprisingly sound.
    Was she of sound mind (= not mentally ill) at the time of the incident?
- financially strong and likely to succeed: 
    Although the company's share price has declined, its business remains basically sound.
    Government bonds are a sound investment.
- showing or based on good judgment: 
    She gave me some very sound advice.
    She is a sound judge of character.
    I'm not sure how sound the theoretical basis for this argument is.
- able to be trusted because of having a lot of ability or knowledge: 
    The book is very sound on the basics.
    How sound is her knowledge of the subject?
- not harmful or wrong: 
    Are these pesticides environmentally sound?
    I want our business to operate in an ethically sound way. 
- used to say that you like, agree with, or approve of someone or something: 
    He's a good guy. He's sound.
    "Shall we go there now?" "Yeah, sound."
- (of sleep) deep: 
    He quickly fell into a sound sleep.
    Her sleep was so sound that she did not wake when they moved her.
- used to describe someone who sleeps deeply and well: 
    I'm normally a very sound sleeper but this noise kept me awake.
- (of a beating or defeat) severe: 
    The party was forced to reflect after a sound beating at the ballot box.
    The thief was given a sound thrashing.
- deeply: 
    He was sound asleep within moments of getting into bed.
idioms:
 be as sound as a bell
phrasal verbs:
 sound off
 sound sb out

fault /fɒlt/
- a mistake, especially something for which you are to blame: 
    It's not my fault she didn't come!
    She believes it was the doctor's fault that Peter died.
    The fault was/lay with the organizers, who failed to make the necessary arrangements for dealing with so many people.
    Through no fault of his own, he spent a week locked up in jail.
- a weakness in a person's character: 
    He has many faults, but dishonesty isn't one of them.
- a broken part or weakness in a machine or system: 
    The car has a serious design fault.
    An electrical fault caused the fire.
    For all the faults in our education system, it is still better than that in many other countries.
- (in tennis and some other games) a mistake made by a player who is beginning a game by hitting the ball
- to have done something wrong: 
    Her doctor was at fault for/in not sending her straight to a specialist.
- to criticize someone or something, especially without good reasons: 
    He's always finding fault with my work.
- a crack in the earth's surface where the rock has divided into two parts that move against each other: 
    Surveyors say the fault line is capable of generating a major earthquake once in a hundred years.
- to find a reason to criticize someone or something: 
    I can't fault the way they dealt with the complaint.
    I can't fault you on your logic.
- to hit a fault in tennis and other similar games: 
    That's the fourth serve he's faulted on today.
idioms:
 be kind, generous, etc. to a fault

water /ˈwɔː.tər/
- a clear liquid, without colour or taste, that falls from the sky as rain and is necessary for animal and plant life: 
    a bottle/drink/glass of water
    bottled/mineral/tap water
    hot/cold water
    Can I have a drop of water in my whisky, please?
    Is there enough hot water for a bath?
    The human body is about 50 percent water.
- an area of water, such as the sea, a lake, or a swimming pool: 
    The water's warm - are you coming in?
    I don't like getting my head under (= in) water.
    Dad, I swam a whole length of the pool under water (= with the whole head and body below the surface of the water)!
- the level of an area of water: 
    The river is difficult to cross during periods of high water.
- a way of referring to urine (= yellowish liquid waste from the body): 
    Is there any pain when you pass water?
    If your water is dark, it may mean you are dehydrated.
- the area of sea near to and belonging to a particular country: 
    St Lucia depends on its clean coastal waters for its income.
- the water contained in a particular lake, river, or part of the sea: 
    In the shallow waters of the Gulf of Mexico, oil rigs attract fish.
- the liquid that surrounds a baby inside a pregnant woman's womb: 
    At 3 a.m. her waters broke, and the baby was born soon after.
- water from a spring, especially when used in the past for drinking or swimming in, in order to improve the health: 
    People used to come to this city to take (= drink or swim in) the waters.
- to pour water on to plants or the soil that they are growing in: 
    I've asked my neighbour to water the plants while I'm away.
- to give an animal water to drink: 
    The horses had been fed and watered.
- If your mouth waters, it produces a lot of saliva, usually because you can see or smell some food that you would like to eat: 
    The smell of that bread is making my mouth water!
- When your eyes water, they produce tears but not because you are unhappy: 
    How do you stop your eyes from watering when you're cutting up onions?
- used to form adjectives: 
    freshwater fish
    a saltwater lagoon
idioms:
 (like) water off a duck's back
 water under the bridge
 murky/uncharted waters
phrasal verbs:
 water sth down

ten /ten/
- the number 10: 
    Her father died ten years ago.
    We can take ten (people) in the minibus.
idioms:
 ten to one
 be/go down to ten men

women /ˈwɪm.ɪn/
- plural of woman

welcome /ˈwel.kəm/
- to be pleased about and encourage or support something: 
    The new appointment has been widely welcomed.
- to meet and speak to someone in a friendly way when they arrive: 
    The visitors were warmly welcomed by the head of the department.
    Browning stood at the door, welcoming newcomers with a large smile and a pat on the arm.
    Please welcome (= please clap for) our guest of honour, George Taylor.
- If someone is welcome, you are pleased when they visit you: 
    Come and see us whenever you're in town - you're always welcome/you'll always be welcome.
    Their tradition is that the traveller is a welcome guest.
- to show someone that you are pleased that they are with you: 
    The restaurant makes children very welcome.
- If something is welcome, you are pleased to have or do it: 
    The holiday was a welcome change/break/relief.
    She offered him the welcome chance/opportunity to do something different.
    A nice cup of tea would be very welcome.
- used to tell someone that they can certainly do something: 
    Anyone who is interested is welcome to come along.
- the way in which someone is met and spoken to when they arrive in a place: 
    They were given a warm (= very friendly) welcome.
    The leader of the political protests returned to a hero's/heroine's welcome after seven years in exile.
    She referred to his previous visit in her speech of welcome/welcome speech.
- to stay too long: 
    I left after two days - I didn't want to outstay my welcome.
- a reaction to a decision or suggestion: 
    Their supporters gave the decision a guarded/cautious welcome.
- said as a greeting to someone arriving at a place: 
    Welcome - please come in.
    Welcome home/back - we've missed you!
    Welcome to Cambridge.
idioms:
 be welcome to
 you're welcome

buy /baɪ/
buy | bought | bought
- to get something by paying money for it: 
    Eventually she had saved enough money to buy a small car.
    He bought his mother some flowers/He bought some flowers for his mother.
    There are more people buying at this time of the year so prices are high.
    The company was set up to buy and sell shares on behalf of investors.
    I bought my camera from a friend of mine.
- to pay someone so that they do what you want or do not cause you any trouble: 
    He claimed that the judges concerned had been bought.
    It shouldn't be possible to buy a Senator to vote on issues that are important to you. 
- to pay someone or do something for someone, so that that person does not tell anyone something that they know about and that you want to remain secret: 
    What will we have to do to buy her silence?
- to believe that something is true: 
    She'll never buy that story about you getting lost!
- to be worth/not be worth the price: 
    This jacket is a really good buy, at £200.
idioms:
 buy the farm
 buy time
 sb has bought it
phrasal verbs:
 buy sth in
 buy into sth
 buy sb off
 buy sb out
 buy yourself out
 buy sth up

hour /aʊər/
- a period of 60 minutes: 
    The exam lasted an hour and a half.
    There are 24 hours in a day.
    How many hours' sleep do you need?
    I'll be back in an hour's/two hours' time (= after one/two hours).
    My hometown is an hour from Houston/an hour away (= it takes an hour to travel there).
    He gets paid by the hour (= gets a particular amount of money for each hour he works).
    Trains leave every hour on the hour (= at exactly one o'clock, two o'clock, etc.).
    Buses leave at ten minutes past/to the hour (= at ten past/to one o'clock, two o'clock, etc.).
    War was declared at eighteen hundred hours/18.00 hours (= at six o'clock in the evening).
- the period of time when a particular activity happens or when a shop or public building is open: 
    I try to spend my lunch hour walking.
    office/working hours
    Our opening hours are from 8.00 to 6.00.
- a particular time during the day or night: 
    Who could be calling us at this unearthly/ungodly hour (= so late at night)?
    He returned in the early/small hours (= at night, after midnight).
- used to describe how many hours in the day you work or what part of the day you work: 
    She's a nurse so she often works unsocial hours.
    He's paid well but he works long hours.
- for a very long time: 
    I waited for him for hours.
- repeatedly during the day and the night: 
    They keep calling me at all hours (of the day and night).
idioms:
 after hours
 hour after hour
 your hour has come
 (from) hour to hour
 in sb's hour of need
 out of hours
 until all hours

speak /spiːk/
speak | spoke | spoken
- to say words, to use the voice, or to have a conversation with someone: 
    Would you mind speaking more slowly, please?
    "Can I speak to Dan please?"
    "Can I speak with Scott please?"
    "Speaking." (= This is Scott.)
    If he tells Julie what I said, I'll never speak to him again.
    She spoke of her sadness over her father's death.
    She speaks very highly of (= says good things about) the new director.
    I can certainly come but I can't speak for my wife (= I can't tell you whether she can or not).
    Who is going to speak for (= represent in a court of law) the accused?
    He's old enough to speak for himself (= to say what he thinks).
    I went with Ava - speaking of (= on the subject of) Ava, have you seen her new haircut?
    We've been invited to Rachel and Jamie's wedding - speaking of which, did you know that they're moving to New York?
    Speaking as (= with my experience as) a mother of four, I can tell you that children are exhausting.
    Sue speaks with an American accent.
    Why are you speaking in a whisper (= very quietly)?
    For five whole minutes, neither of them spoke a word (= they both said nothing).
- talking from a particular point of view: 
    Historically speaking, the island is of great interest.
    Generally speaking, it's a good school.
    Strictly speaking (= if I behave according to the rules), I should report it to the police.
- to tell someone that they have done something wrong: 
    The manager promised that she would speak to the person responsible.
- to (be able to) talk in a language: 
    He speaks fluent French.
    How many foreign languages do you speak?
    I couldn't speak a word of (= I did not know any) Spanish when I got there.
    I couldn't figure out what language they were speaking.
- to give a formal talk to a group of people: 
    Who is speaking in the debate tonight?
    The Queen speaks to the nation on television every Christmas.
    Janet is speaking for the motion (= trying to persuade the people listening that the idea is good) and Peter is speaking against (it) (= trying to persuade them that it is bad).
- to show or express something without using words: 
    She was silent, but her eyes spoke her real feelings for him.
    The whole robbery spoke of (= made it seem that there had been) inside knowledge on the part of the criminals.
- used to form nouns to mean the special language used in a particular subject area or business: 
    computer-speak
    marketing-speak
idioms:
 be on speaking terms
 none to speak of
 not be on speaking terms
 so to speak
 speak your mind
 speak for yourself
 speak too soon
 speak to sb
 speak volumes
 speak when you're spoken to!
 speaks for itself
phrasal verbs:
 speak out/up
 speak to sth
 speak up
 speak up for sb/sth

think /θɪŋk/
think | thought | thought
- to believe something or have an opinion or idea: 
    I think (that) I've met you before.
    I don't think Emma will get the job.
    "Do you think (that) you could get me some stamps while you're in town?"
    He was thought to have boarded the plane in New York.
    What did you think of the film?
    Salmon used to be thought of as expensive/a luxury.
    What do you think about the latest plans for improving the undergroundsystem?
    I think it is important to learn English.
- to have a low opinion of someone or something: 
    I didn't think much of her latest book.
- to consider a person's needs or wishes: 
    She's always thinking of others.
- to use the brain to decide to do something: 
    I'm thinking of taking up running.
    I think (that) I'll go swimming after lunch.
    I'm thinking about buying a new car.
- to use the brain to plan something, solve a problem, understand a situation, etc.: 
    What are you thinking, Peter?
    He just does these things without thinkingand he gets himself into trouble.
    You think too much - that's your problem.
    I'm sorry I forgot to mention your name. I just wasn't thinking.
- to think very carefully about something: 
    Think long and hard before you make any important decisions.
    I know it's exciting, but you should think twice before you spend that much money on a vacation.
- to automatically say what you are thinking: 
    "What did you say?" "Oh, nothing, I was just thinking aloud."
- to remember or imagine: 
    I was just thinking about you when you called.
    She was so busy she didn't think to tell me about it.
- to consider something for some time: 
    Let me have a think about it before I decide.
    Have a think over the weekend and tell me what you've decided.
idioms:
 couldn't think
 I can't think
 I think not
 I thought as much
 not be thinking straight
 not think twice
 think again
 think better of sth
 think big
 think nothing of sth
 think on your feet
 think outside the box
 to sb's way of thinking
 who would have thought it?
 have another think coming
phrasal verbs:
 think ahead
 think back
 think for yourself
 think of sth
 think of sth/sb
 think of/about sb/sth
 think sth out
 think sth over
 think sth through
 think sth up

Christmas /ˈkrɪs.məs/
- (the period just before and after) 25 December, a Christian holy day that celebrates the birth of Jesus Christ: 
    We're going to my mother's for Christmas.
    Merry/Happy Christmas!
    We had a fantastic Christmas.
    the Christmas holidays

body /ˈbɒd.i/
- the whole physical structure that forms a person or animal: 
    A good diet and plenty of exercise will help you to keep your body healthy.
    She rubbed suncream over her entire body.
- the main part of a person's or animal's body, without the head, or without the head, arms, and legs: 
    He had a fat body but thin legs and arms.
- a dead person: 
    A body was washed up on the beach last week.
- the painted metal shell of a vehicle, such as a car or an aircraft
- a person: 
    How is a body supposed to live in these conditions?
- a piece of tight-fitting women's clothing that covers the top half of the body and fastens between the legs
- a group of people who have joined together for a particular reason: 
    a governing body
    an advisory body
    The RSPCA is a respected body working for animal welfare.
    There is a large body of people who are unaware of their basic rights.
    Chatsworth High School’s student body raised $5,000 for the charity. 
- If people do something in a body, they do it together as a group, in an official way: 
    The cleaning staff went in a body to the manager to complain.
- a large amount of something: 
    There is a growing body of evidence to support their claim.
    She collected a huge body of information on the subject.
    A substantial body of opinion (= a large group of people with the same opinion) is opposed to any change.
- A body of water is a large area of water, such as a lake.
- the main part of a book, article, etc.: 
    I thought the most interesting details in the book were not in the body of the text, but in the notes at the end.
- the main part of a large building: 
    to enter the body of the cathedral
- a separate object or mass: 
    The distance between the two bodies in space was measured daily.
- a strong or thick quality: 
    This Bordeaux has plenty of body (= strong flavour).
    Conditioner can give your hair more body.
idioms:
 keep body and soul together

order /ˈɔː.dər/
- a request to make, supply, or deliver food or goods: 
    "Can I take your order now?" said the waiter.
    I would like to place (= make) an order for a large pine table.
- a product or a meal that has been asked for by a customer: 
    I got an email saying that the order has been shipped.
- If something is on order, you have asked for it but have not yet received it: 
    The new drilling equipment has been on order for several weeks.
- to do or make something especially for a person who has asked for it: 
    We make wedding cakes to order.
- the way in which people or things are arranged, either in relation to one another or according to a particular characteristic: 
    The children lined up in order of age/height.
    I can't find the file I need because they're all out of order (= they are no longer arranged in the correct way).
    Put the files in alphabetical/chronological order.
    Here's the running order for the concert (= the order in which each item will happen).
- something that someone tells you you must do: 
    The soldiers fired as soon as their commander gave the order.
    Soldiers must obey orders.
    What are your orders?
    My orders are to search everyone's bag as they come in.
    The road was closed all day by order of the police.
    Clean up this room immediately - and that's an order!
- to have been told that you must do something by someone in authority: 
    We are under orders not to allow anyone into the building.
- an official instruction telling someone what they can or cannot do, or a written instruction to a bank to pay money to a particular person
- with the aim of achieving something: 
    He came home early in order to see the kids before they went to bed.
    I agreed to her suggestion in order not to upset her.
- a situation in which everything is arranged in its correct place: 
    The house was such a mess that she spent the whole day trying to establish some kind of order.
- to organize something well: 
    I try to leave my desk in order when I go home.
    He put his affairs in order (= made arrangements for his personal and business matters) before he went into the hospital.
- the state of working correctly or of being suitable for use: 
    TV for sale in (good) working order.
    Are your immigration papers in order (= legally correct)?
    The coffee machine is out of order (= not working).
- a situation in which rules are obeyed and people do what they are expected to do: 
    The teacher found it hard to keep her class in order.
    As the demonstration began to turn violent, the police were called in to restore order.
    After some heated discussion, the chairperson called the meeting to order (= told everyone to stop talking so that the meeting could continue).
    Is it in order (= allowed) for me to park my car outside the building?
- an expression used in a parliament or a formal meeting to get people's attention and make them stop talking, so that the meeting or discussion can start or continue
- a social or political system: 
    The collapse of Communism at the end of the 1980s encouraged hopes of a new world order.
- a group of people who join together for religious or similar reasons and live according to particular rules: 
    religious/holy orders
    monks of the Cistercian/Franciscan Order
- a group that people are made members of as a reward for services they have done for their country: 
    He was made a knight of the Order of the Garter.
- the type or size of something: 
    These were problems of a completely different order from anything we had faced before.
    No successful business can be run without skills of the highest order (= great skills).
- approximately: 
    The cost will be something in the order of $500.
- (used in the classification of plants and animals) a group of related plants or animals: 
    An order is below a class and above a family.
- to ask for something to be made, supplied, or delivered, especially in a restaurant or shop: 
    I ordered some pasta and a mixed salad.
    There are no shirts left in this size but we could order one for you/order you one.
- If a person in authority orders someone to do something, or orders something to be done, they tell someone to do it: 
    The management has ordered a cutback in spending.
    "Wait over there," she ordered.
    They ordered him to leave the room.
- to arrange a group of people or things in a list from first to last: 
    The documents have been ordered alphabetically.
    I've ordered the application forms into three groups.
idioms:
 orders are orders
 out of order
 the lower orders
 the order of the day
 order your thoughts
phrasal verbs:
 order sb around
 order sth in

outside /ˌaʊtˈsaɪd/
- not inside a building: 
    It was a sunny day outside.
    Since it's such a nice day, let's eat/sit/go outside.
    an outside light/toilet
- coming from another place or organization: 
    The company has called in outside experts.
- a phone call or connection going outside the place where you are
- the most that would be accepted or possible: 
    The outside limit/figure would be $350.
- not in a particular building or room, but near it: 
    She sat for two hours on the floor outside his room.
- not in a particular place: 
    Nobody outside this room must ever know what we have discussed.
- not within or part of something: 
    I'm afraid that would be outside my job description.
- except for: 
    Outside of us three, no one knows anything about the problem, yet.
- the outer part or side of something: 
    The outside of the house needs painting.
    The house looks larger when looked at from the outside.
    The company needs to get help from outside (= from people who work for other organizations).
- used to say that an amount is the most possible in a situation: 
    The job will take about ten days at the outside.
- slight: 
    There's still an outside chance/possibility that Scotland will make it into the World Cup.
idioms:
 the outside world

hang /hæŋ/
- to fasten or support something at the top leaving the other parts free to move, or to be held in this way: 
    A heavy gold necklace hung around her neck.
    Party decorations hung (down) from the ceiling.
    The curtains hung in thick folds.
    Hang your coat and hat (up) on the rack over there.
    Many of his finest pictures hang/are hung (= are attached to the wall so that they can be seen) in the National Gallery.
    Hang the pheasant/Let the pheasant hang for a few days for the flavour to improve before you cook it.
- If you hang wallpaper, you fix it to the wall.
- to kill someone, especially as punishment for a serious crime, by dropping them with a rope tied around their neck, or to die in this way: 
    He was found guilty and hanged later that year.
    With so little evidence to prove her guilt, few people thought she should hang.
    The woman tried to hang herself with a sheet.
- to stay in the air: 
    The falcon seemed to hang in the air for a moment before diving onto its prey.
    Smoke from the houses hung above the village.
    The sound of the bells hung in the midnight air.
- to curve down: 
    The branches hung heavy with snow.
    He knew he'd done something wrong and hung his head in shame.
- to spend time relaxing with a person or in a place: 
    Ashley spent most of the evening hanging with her friend.
    Sometimes we just hang in the park.
- (of a computer program or system) to stop working or appearing on a screen: 
    In the middle of a download, it just hangs.
    The update prevents the system from hanging when it receives a corrupt data fragment.
- to learn how to do something, especially if it is not obvious or simple: 
    "I've never used this program before." "Don't worry - you'll soon get the hang of it."
- the way something made of cloth looks when it is hanging: 
    That coat fits you so well - the hang is perfect.
idioms:
 go hang (yourself)
 hang by a thread
 hang in there
 hang sb out to dry
 hang the cost/expense
 hang tough
 have sb/sth hanging round your neck
 hung, drawn, and quartered
 I'll be hanged if...
 I'll be hanged if I know
 you might as well be hanged for a sheep as for a lamb
phrasal verbs:
 hang around
 hang around (somewhere)
 hang around with sb
 hang back
 hang on
 hang sth on sb
 hang on/upon sth
 hang onto sth
 hang out
 hang over sth
 hang round (somewhere)
 hang round with sb
 hang together
 hang up
 hang sth up

worse /wɜːs/
- comparative of 
bad : more unpleasant, difficult, or severe than before or than something else that is also bad: 
    The conditions they're living in are worse than we thought.
    If the rain gets any worse we'll have to go back.
    His manners are even worse than his sister's.
    The heat is much worse in the daytime.
- to become more ill, or to become a more severe condition: 
    My cold seems to be getting worse.
    If he gets any worse I'll take him to the doctor's.
- something that is more unpleasant or difficult: 
    By the third month of the expedition they had endured many hardships, but worse was to follow.
    "What about the bride's dress - wasn't it terrible?" "I don't know, I've seen worse."
- comparative of 
badly : 
    He did worse than he was expecting in the exams.
    He was treated much worse than I was.
idioms:
 make matters worse
 worse luck
 be none the worse
 for the worse
 the worse for drink
 the worse for wear

company /ˈkʌm.pə.ni/
- an organization that sells goods or services in order to make money: 
    He works for a software company/a company that makes software.
    I work for Duggan and Company.
    No smoking is company policy.
- the fact of being with a person or people, or the person or people you are with: 
    I just enjoy his company.
    It was a long trip and I was grateful for his company.
    I enjoy my own company (= I like being alone).
    I travelled in the company of (= with) two teachers as far as Istanbul.
    I'd rather you didn't mention it when we're in company (= with other people).
    I didn't realize you had company (= were with someone/people).
    Margot came to stay for a week as company for my mother while I was away.
    With only her thoughts for company (= being alone), she walked slowly along the beach.
- to be pleasant and entertaining to be with: 
    You'll like Rosie - she's good company.
- If you do something for company, you do it to make you feel as if you are not alone: 
    I usually have the radio on for company.
- to stay with someone so that they are not alone: 
    I'll keep you company till the train comes.
- a group of actors, singers, or dancers who perform together: 
    She's in the National Theatre Company.
    I'd like to thank the director, the choreographer and the other members of the company for being so supportive.
- a large group of soldiers. especially a division of a battalion
- an organized group of young women who are Guides: 
    My cousin and I joined the same Guide company.
idioms:
 be in good company
 the company sb keeps

mistake /mɪˈsteɪk/
- an action, decision, or judgment that produces an unwanted or unintentional result: 
    I'm not blaming you - we all make mistakes.
    It was a mistake for us to come here tonight.
    This letter's full of spelling mistakes.
    I've discovered a few mistakes in your calculations.
    Why am I under arrest? There must be some mistake.
- by accident: 
    I've paid this bill twice by mistake.
- to be wrong about or to fail to recognize something or someone: 
    You can't mistake their house - it has a bright yellow front door.
    I mistook your signature and thought the letter was from someone else.
idioms:
 and no mistake
 make no mistake (about it)
 be no mistaking sth
phrasal verbs:
 mistake sb/sth for sb/sth

handle /ˈhæn.dəl/
- a part of an object designed for holding, moving, or carrying the object easily: 
    a door handle
    the handle on a suitcase
    I can't pick the kettle up - the handle's too hot.
    She turned the handle and slowly opened the door.
- a name of a person or place, especially a strange one: 
    That's some handle to go through life with!
- a name that someone is known by on the social media website Twitter™ : 
    Twitter handles start with an @ sign.
    You can follow the team on Twitter under the handle @ManUtd.
- to deal with, have responsibility for, or be in charge of: 
    I thought he handled the situation very well.
    Some people are brilliant with computers, but have no idea how to handle (= behave with) other people.
    If you can't handle the job I'll get someone else to do it.
    Who handles the marketing in your company?
- to pick something up and touch, hold, or move it with your hands: 
    Always wash your hands before handling food.
    Please don't handle the vases - they're very fragile.
- to operate or control something that could be difficult or dangerous: 
    Have you ever handled a gun before?
- If a car handles well, it is easy and pleasant to drive.
- to buy and sell goods: 
    We only handle cosmetics that have not been tested on animals.
    He's been arrested for handling stolen goods.

spend /spend/
spend | spent | spent
- to give money as a payment for something: 
    How much did you spend?
    I don't know how I managed to spend so much in the club last night.
    We spent a fortune when we were in New York.
    She spends a lot of money on clothes.
    We've just spent $1.9 million on improving our computer network.
    We went on a spending spree (= we bought a lot of things) on Saturday.
- to use time doing something or being somewhere: 
    I think we need to spend more time together.
    I spent a lot of time cleaning that room.
    I've spent years building up my collection.
    I spent an hour at the station waiting for the train.
    How long do you spend on your homework?
    My sister always spends ages in the bathroom.
    We spent the weekend in Buenos Aires.
    You can spend the night here if you like.
- to use energy, effort, force, etc., especially until there is no more left: 
    For the past month he's been spending all his energy trying to find a job.
    They continued firing until all their ammunition was spent (= there was none of it left).
    The hurricane will probably have spent most of its force (= most of its force will have gone) by the time it reaches the northern parts of the country.
    Her anger soon spent itself (= stopped).
- the amount of money that is spent on something: 
    The total spend on the project was almost a million pounds.
idioms:
 spend a penny
 spend the night together

totally /ˈtəʊ.təl.i/
- completely: 
    Her second husband is totally different from Mark.
    I totally agree with you.

control /kənˈtrəʊl/
control | -ll-
- to order, limit, or rule something, or someone's actions or behaviour: 
    If you can't control your dog, put it on a lead!
    You're going to have to learn to control your temper.
    The temperature is controlled by a thermostat.
    The laws controlling drugs are very strict in this country.
    The government is trying to control spending.
- the act of controlling something or someone, or the power to do this: 
    She doesn't have any control over that child - it's embarrassing.
    He wants the government to impose strict controls on dog ownership.
    The dictator took control of the country in 1933.
    He felt he was losing control of events.
    You need to stay in control of your emotions.
    The car skidded and went out of control, crashing into an oncoming truck.
    There was nothing we could do about it - the situation was out of/beyond/outside our control.
    She criticized the police's methods of crowd control.
- being dealt with or limited successfully: 
    It seems that the disease is now under control.
    Everything is under control, sir.
    It took them two hours to bring/get the fire under control.
- a switch or other device used to operate a machine such as a vehicle: 
    The main instruments are in the centre of the control panel.
    Captain Firth sat at the controls of the aircraft.
- a key on a computer keyboard that you press at the same time as other keys to make the keyboard operate in a particular way: 
    Press and hold down the control key while you press 9.
    I pressed Control Alt Delete but nothing happened.
- in an experiment, an object or system that is not changed so that you can compare it with similar objects or systems that are intentionally changed

marriage /ˈmær.ɪdʒ/
- a legally accepted relationship between two people in which they live together, or the official ceremony that results in this: 
    They had a long and happy marriage.
    She went to live in another state after the break-up of her marriage.
    She has two daughters by her first marriage.
    the marriage ceremony
- a marriage in which the partners have married, not because they love each other, but in order to get an advantage, such as the right to live in the other partner's country
- a combination of two or more things: 
    His music is a marriage of jazz, blues, and pop.

power /paʊər/
- ability to control people and events: 
    I've no power over him - he does what he wants to.
    Once nicotine has you in its power, it's very difficult to stop smoking.
    She has the power to charm any man she meets.
- the amount of political control a person or group has in a country: 
    Does the president have more power than the prime minister?
    How long has the Conservative Party been in power?
    The army seized power after five days of anti-government demonstrations.
- strength: 
    Our car doesn't have enough power to tow a trailer.
    Weightlifters have tremendous power in their arms and legs.
    Scientists are working to harness the power of the atom.
    The economic power of many Asian countries has grown dramatically in recent years.
- an official or legal right to do something: 
    I'd like to help but I don't have the power to intervene in this dispute.
    It's not in your power to cancel the order.
    I can't give you a refund - I'm afraid it's not within my power.
- authority: 
    You were acting beyond your powers when you agreed to give her a pay rise.
    Visitors to the city are respectfully reminded of the council's powers to remove illegally parked vehicles.
- electricity, especially when considering its use or production: 
    You should disconnect the power before attempting to repair electrical equipment.
    Our building lost power (= the electricity was stopped) during the storm.
    power cables/lines
- abilities: 
    My mental powers aren't as good as they used to be.
- a natural skill or an ability to do something: 
    He was so shocked by what happened to his parents that he lost the power of speech.
    The surgeon did everything in her power to save him.
- a person, organization, or country that has control over others, often because of wealth, importance, or great military strength: 
    Spain was an important military power in the 16th century.
    Germany is on its way to becoming a world power with a permanent seat on the UN Security Council.
    She is an increasingly important power in the company.
- the rate at which energy is used, or the ability to produce energy: 
    The ship was only slightly damaged in the collision and was able to sail into port under its own power.
    The power rating of my amplifier is 40 watts per channel.
- the amount by which an image is increased by a device used for seeing things that are very small or a long distance away: 
    What's the magnification power of your binoculars?
    You'll need a very high-power microscope to see something as small as that.
    A low-power telescope is enough if you only want to look at the moon.
- the number of times that a number is to be multiplied by itself: 
    2 to the fourth power is 2 times 2 times 2 times 2, which equals 16.
    3 to the power 4 is usually written as 34.
- to provide a machine with energy and the ability to operate: 
    Buses and trucks are usually powered by diesel engines.
    Electricity costs less than petrol, so powering an electric vehicle is cheaper.
- to act with great strength or in a forceful way: 
    Halfway through, she powered into the lead and went on to win the race.
idioms:
 do sb a power of good
 more power to your elbow!
 the power behind the throne
 the powers that be
phrasal verbs:
 power (sth) down
 power through (sth)
 power (sth) up

president /ˈprez.ɪ.dənt/
- (the title given to) the person who has the highest political position in a country that is a republic and who, in some of these countries, is the leader of the government: 
    President Kennedy
    the president of France
    Thank you, Mr/Madam President.
- the person who has the highest position in an organization or, especially in the US, in a company: 
    a former president of the Royal Society
    She's a friend of the president of the bank.

unless /ənˈles/
- except if: 
    You can't get a job unless you have experience (= you can only get a job if you have experience).
    Unless you call me to say you're not coming, I'll see you at the theatre (= I will see you there if you do not call to say you are not coming).

sex /seks/
- the state of being either male or female: 
    What sex is your cat?
    Some tests enable you to find out the sex of your baby before it's born.
    It's illegal to discriminate against people on the basis of (their) sex.
    She accused her employer of sex discrimination (= of treating her unfairly because she was a woman).
- all males considered as a group, or all females considered as a group: 
    She seems to regard all members of the male sex as inferior.
    Members of the opposite sex are not allowed in students' rooms overnight.
- physical activity between people involving the sexual organs: 
    Sex before/outside marriage is strongly disapproved of in some cultures.
    She was complaining about all the sex and violence on television.
    She'd been having sex with a colleague at work for years.
    Most young people now receive sex education at school.
    extramarital/premarital sex
    casual sex (= sex with someone you do not know)
    unprotected sex (= sex without using something to prevent disease or becoming pregnant)
- to discover if an animal is male or female: 
    How do you sex fish?
phrasal verbs:
 sex sth up

send /send/
send | sent | sent
- to cause something to go from one place to another, especially by post or email: 
    I'll send her a letter/email/parcel/postcard next week.
    We'll send it by post/airmail/sea.
    Could you send a reply to them as quickly as possible?
    The news report was sent by satellite.
    She sent a message with John to say that she couldn't come.
    They sent her flowers for her birthday.
    Maggie sends her love and hopes you'll feel better soon.
- to cause or order someone to go and do something: 
    We're sending the kids to stay with my parents for a couple of weeks.
    The commander has asked us to send reinforcements.
    They've sent their son (away) to boarding school.
    He was trying to explain but she became impatient and sent him away (= told him to leave).
- to cause someone or something to do a particular thing, or to cause something to happen: 
    The explosion sent the crowd into a panic.
    Watching television always sends me to sleep.
    His untidiness sends her crazy/mad/wild.
    The announcement of the fall in profits sent the company's share price plummeting (= caused it to go down a lot).
    The draught from the fan sent papers flying all over the room.
idioms:
 send sb packing
 send sb to Coventry
 send shivers down/up sb's spine
 send a signal (to sb) that 
 send a message
 send word
phrasal verbs:
 send sth back
 send sb down
 send for sb
 send (off/away) for/to sth
 send sth in
 send sb in
 send sth off
 send sb off
 send sth on
 send sth out
 send out for sth
 send sb up
 send sb/sth up

picture /ˈpɪk.tʃər/
- a drawing, painting, photograph, etc.: 
    Freddy drew/painted a picture of my dog.
    We took a picture of (= photographed) the children on their new bicycles.
    I hate having my picture taken (= being photographed).
- an image seen on a television or cinema screen: 
    We can't get a clear picture.
- a film: 
    Could this be the first animated movie to win a best picture award?
- the cinema: 
    Let's go to the pictures tonight.
- something you produce in your mind, by using your imagination or memory: 
    I have a very vivid picture of the first time I met Erik.
- (an idea of) a situation: 
    After watching the news, I had a clearer picture of what was happening.
    The picture emerging in reports from the battlefield is one of complete confusion.
- a situation described in a particular way: 
    The experts are painting a gloomy/brighter/rosy picture of the state of the economy.
- to imagine something: 
    Picture the scene - the crowds of people and animals, the noise, the dirt.
    Try to picture yourself lying on a beach in the hot sun.
    Picture to yourself how terrible that day must have been.
    He was pictured (= an artist had painted him) as a soldier in full uniform.
idioms:
 be a picture
 be the picture of health, innocence, etc.
 every picture tells a story
 get the picture
 keep sb in the picture
 out of the picture
 put sb in the picture
 sb's face is a picture

hundred /ˈhʌn.drəd/
hundred | plural hundred or hundreds
- the number 100: 
    We've driven a/one hundred miles in the last two hours.
    "How many children are there in the school?" "About three hundred."
    That dress costs hundreds of dollars.
- a large number: 
    There were hundreds of people at the pool today.
    There are a hundred shirts waiting to be ironed.
- numbers between 100 and 1,000: 
    He expects the total amount to be in the low hundreds.
- the years of a particular century: 
    The house was built in the sixteen hundreds.
- used to say the time using the 24-hour system, especially used in the military: 
    Breakfast is at seven hundred hours.
idioms:
 a/one hundred percent

change /tʃeɪndʒ/
- to exchange one thing for another thing, especially of a similar type: 
    She's just changed jobs.
    Let's change the subject (= talk about something different).
- to make or become different: 
    I almost didn't recognize her - she'd changed so much.
    That was 20 years ago and things have changed since then.
    Nothing changes, does it - I've been away two years and the office still looks exactly the same.
    People have changed their diets a lot over the past few years.
    I'm going to change my hairstyle.
- to take something you have bought back to a shop and exchange it for something else: 
    I had to change those trousers I bought for (= take them back to the shop in order to get) a bigger pair.
- to form a new opinion or make a new decision about something that is different from your old one: 
    If you change your mind about coming tonight, just give me a call.
    When I first met him I didn't like him but I've changed my mind.
- to improve: 
    Her attitude has definitely changed for the better since she started this new job.
- to improve the bad parts of your behaviour: 
    If he wants to carry on living here, he's going to have to change his ways and learn to be a bit less messy.
- to get off a train, bus, etc. and catch another in order to continue a journey: 
    I had to change (trains) twice to get there.
    Change at Peterborough for York.
- to get or give money in exchange for money, either because you want it in smaller units, or because you want the same value in foreign money: 
    Could you change a £10 note (for two fives), please?
    Could you change a £5 note for me?
    I need to change my dollars for/into English money.
- to remove one set of clothes and put a different set on yourself or a young child, especially a baby, or to remove dirty sheets from a bed and put clean ones on it: 
    You don't need to change - you look great as you are.
    I'll just change into (= get dressed in) something a bit smarter.
    Give me five minutes to change out of (= remove) my work clothes and I'll come out with you.
    How often do you think he changes his shirt?
    Could you change the baby (= the baby's nappy)?
    I've changed the sheets/the bed (= the sheets on the bed) in the guest room.
- When the wind or the tide (= the rise and fall of the sea) changes, it starts to move in a different direction: 
    The tide is starting to change.
- to put a vehicle into a different gear, usually in order to change the speed at which it is moving: 
    to change gear
    I changed into fourth (gear).
    Change down to go round the corner.
- the act of becoming different, or the result of something becoming different: 
    Let me know if there's any change in the situation.
    We're living in a time of great change.
    We need a change of government.
    a change in lifestyle
    They've made a lot of changes to the house.
    The new management will make fundamental/radical/sweeping changes (= do things in a very different way).
- something that is pleasant or interesting because it is unusual or new: 
    It's nice to see her smile for a change.
    "Shall we we eat in the garden?" "Why not - it'll make a change."
    We've always had a red car - it's time we had a change!
- a new situation: 
    She'd been with the same company for too many years and felt she needed a change of scene, so she applied for a job as a stage manager.
- money in the form of coins rather than notes: 
    She gave me €5 in change.
    My dad always used to carry a lot of loose/small change (= coins) in his pocket.
- smaller units of money given in exchange for larger units of the same amount: 
    Do you have change for a 20-dollar bill?
- the money that is returned to someone who has paid for something that costs less than the amount that they gave: 
    I think you've given me the wrong change.
- the action of putting on different clothes: 
    She did a quick change before going on TV.
- a set of clothes as well as the ones that you are wearing: 
    You'll need a change of clothes if you're staying overnight.
- the action of getting off a train, bus, etc. and catching another in order to continue a journey: 
    I hate journeys where you've got a lot of changes.
idioms:
 change (your) tack
 change your tune
 change hands
 the change (of life)
 a change is as good as a rest
 change of heart
phrasal verbs:
 change sth around
 change over
 change (sth) up

explain /ɪkˈspleɪn/
- to make something clear or easy to understand by describing or giving information about it: 
    If there's anything you don't understand, I'll be happy to explain.
    The teacher explained the rules to the children.
    Our guide explained where the cathedral was.
    He explained how the machine worked.
    Please could you explain why you're so late.
    She explained that she was going to stay with her sister.
    "Someone must have hit the wrong button," an official explained.
    Molly asked the teacher if she could explain herself a little more clearly (= say more clearly what she meant).
    No one has been able to explain (= give the reason for) the accident.
- to give reasons for your behaviour: 
    He hadn't been home for three days so I asked him to explain himself.
phrasal verbs:
 explain sth away

certainly /ˈsɜː.tən.li/
- used to reply completely or to emphasize something and show that there is no doubt about it: 
    She certainly had a friend called Mark, but I don't know whether he was her boyfriend.
    "This is rather a difficult question." "Yes, it's certainly not easy."
    "Do you think more money should be given to education?" "Certainly!"
    "Had you forgotten about our anniversary?" "Certainly not! I've reserved a table at Michel's restaurant for this evening."
- used when agreeing or disagreeing strongly to a request: 
    "Could you lend me £10?" "Certainly."
    "Did you take any money out of my purse?" "Certainly not!"
- very likely to happen: 
    She will certainly win the election if the opinion polls are accurate.

sign /saɪn/
- to write your name, usually on a written or printed document, to show that you agree with its contents or have written or created it yourself: 
    to sign a letter/cheque/contract/lease/agreement
    Sign here, please.
    He signed his name at the end of the letter.
    He signed himself "Mark Taylor".
    She said the painting was by Picasso, but it wasn't signed.
- in sport, to make a legal written agreement to employ a player: 
    The team has just signed a new player.
- to give an order or information, or make a request, using hand and body movements: 
    He signed for/to the waiter to bring him another drink.
    He signed to the waiter that he wanted another drink.
- to use sign language (= language used by people who cannot hear or talk)
- a notice giving information, directions, a warning, etc.: 
    a road sign
    a shop sign
- a movement of the body that gives information or an instruction: 
    She pointed to her watch as a sign that it was getting late and she wanted to leave.
    He made/gave a sign to his boyfriend to stop talking.
    The priest made the sign of the cross (= made the shape of a cross by moving his hand between four points on his chest) when he entered the church.
- something showing that something else exists or might happen or exist in the future: 
    His inability to handle the situation is a sure sign of weakness.
    The fact that he's eating more is a sign that he's feeling better.
    I've searched for my hat, but there's no sign of it anywhere (= I can't find it).
    There was no sign of life in the building (= there seemed to be no one in it).
    Billy's work at school has shown signs of improvement this year.
    There is every sign that/All the signs are that the worst is over.
- a written or printed mark that has a standard meaning: 
    + and - are mathematical signs.
    £ is the sign for the British pound.
idioms:
 sign your own death warrant
 sign on the dotted line
 signed and sealed
 sign of the times
phrasal verbs:
 sign sth away
 sign for sth
 sign for/with sb
 sign in
 sign sb in
 sign (sth) off
 sign off
 sign on
 sign out
 sign sb out
 sign sth out
 sign sth over
 sign up

boy /bɔɪ/
- a male child or, more generally, a male of any age: 
    a teenage/adolescent boy
    As a young boy, my father used to walk three miles to school.
    You've been a very naughty boy!
    Their little boy (= their young son) is very sick.
    All right, boys and girls, settle down!
- a group of male friends: 
    He used to like spending Friday nights with the boys.
- an approving way of speaking about your country's soldiers: 
    We must not forget our boys serving far from home.
- a typical male: 
    He plays baseball, drinks a lot of beer and generally acts like one of the boys.
- used to express excitement, worry, disappointment, etc. or to emphasize something: 
    Boy, that was good!
idioms:
 boys will be boys
 my (dear) boy
 the boys in blue

relationship /rɪˈleɪ.ʃən.ʃɪp/
- the way in which two things are connected: 
    Scientists have established the relationship between lung cancer and smoking.
- the way in which two or more people feel and behave towards each other: 
    He has a very good relationship with his uncle.
- a close romantic friendship between two people, often a sexual one: 
    Have you had any serious relationships in the past year?
- a relationship in which you have feelings of love and hate for someone or something
- the family connection between people: 
    The judge asked the witness what the relationship was between her and the victim.

hair /heər/
- the mass of thin thread-like structures on the head of a person, or any of these structures that grow out of the skin of a person or animal: 
    He's got short, dark hair.
    I'm going to have/get my hair cut.
    She brushed her long, red hair.
    He had lost his hair by the time he was 25.
    He's starting to get a few grey hairs now.
    I found a hair in my soup.
idioms:
 a hair's breadth
 get in sb's hair
 the hair of the dog (that bit you)
 keep your hair on
 make sb's hair stand on end
 not a hair out of place
 that'll put hairs on your chest!

choice /tʃɔɪs/
- an act or the possibility of choosing: 
    If the product doesn't work, you are given the choice of a refund or a replacement.
    It's a difficult choice to make.
    It's your choice/The choice is yours (= only you can decide).
    It was a choice between pain now or pain later, so I chose pain later.
    Now you know all the facts, you can make an informed choice.
    I'd prefer not to work but I don't have much choice (= this is not possible).
    He had no choice but to accept (= he had to accept).
    Is she single by choice?
    Champagne is their drink of choice (= the one they most often drink).
- the range of different things from which you can choose: 
    There wasn't much choice on the menu.
    The evening menu offers a wide choice of dishes.
    The dress is available in a choice of colours.
- a person or thing that has been chosen or that can be chosen: 
    Harvard was not his first choice.
    He wouldn't be my choice as a friend.
    This type of day care may in fact be the best choice for your child.
- of high quality: 
    I had the the most expensive dish on the menu - a choice fillet of fish.
idioms:
 of choice

anywhere /ˈen.i.weər/
- in, to, or at any place: 
    You won't find a better plumber anywhere in England.
    Go anywhere in the world and you'll find some sort of hamburger restaurant.
    I was wondering if there was anywhere I could go to get this repaired.
    There are quite a few words that they use in that part of the country that you don't hear anywhere else.
    They live in some tiny little village miles from anywhere (= a very long way from any towns).
- used in questions or negatives to mean "a place": 
    I can't find my keys anywhere.
    Is there anywhere in particular you wanted to go to eat tonight?
    Did you go anywhere interesting this summer?
    Is there anywhere to eat around here?
- used to say that a number or amount is in a certain range but that you cannot say exactly what it is: 
    He charges anywhere from $20 to $50 for a haircut.
    As a teacher you could expect to be paid anywhere (= any amount) between £25 and £50 per hour.
idioms:
 anywhere near
 not anywhere near
 not anywhere to be found
 not get/go anywhere

secret /ˈsiː.krət/
- a piece of information that is only known by one person or a few people and should not be told to others: 
    Why did you have to go and tell Bob about my illness? You just can't keep a secret, can you?
    A close couple should have no secrets from each other.
    Aren't you going to let me in on (= tell me) the secret?
    There's no secret (= everyone knows) about his homosexuality.
    She makes no secret of (= makes very clear) her dislike of her father.
    That restaurant is one of the best-kept secrets in Rome.
- a fact about a subject that is not known: 
    the secrets of the universe
- the particular knowledge and skills needed to do something very well: 
    So what's the secret of being a good cook?
- If something is secret, other people are not allowed to know about it: 
    The president escaped through a secret passage underneath the parliament building.
    We ought to keep these proposals secret from the chairman for the time being.
    This is top (= extremely) secret information.
    Do you think we'll manage to keep the surprise party secret from Mum until her birthday?
- used to refer to someone who has a particular habit, hobby, or feeling but does not tell or show other people that they do: 
    a secret drinker
    a secret admirer
idioms:
 in secret
 your secret's safe with me

future /ˈfjuː.tʃər/
- a period of time that is to come: 
    Sometimes I worry about the future.
    I wonder what the future holds for (= what will happen to) you and me.
    I'm sure at some point in the future I'll want a baby.
    We need to plan for the future.
    Do you plan to leave New York in the distant future or the near future?
    I can see those two getting married in the not too distant future (= quite soon).
- the form of a verb that you use when talking about something that will happen or exist: 
    In the sentence "He will study" the verb phrase "will study" is in the future.
- what will happen to someone or something in the time that is to come: 
    Torn apart by war, its economy virtually destroyed, this country now faces a very uncertain future.
    She's a very talented young singer, Mike, and I personally think she's got a great future ahead of her!
    The future isn't looking too rosy for these companies.
- the chance of continuing success or existence for something: 
    With falling audiences, the future of this theatre is in doubt.
- used at the beginning or end of a sentence in which there is a decision about a plan of action or a warning: 
    Could you be more careful in future?
    In future I won't bother asking him out anywhere if he's just going to complain that he's bored!
    In future I'm going to check every single piece of work that you do!
- agreements for the buying and selling of goods, in which the price is agreed before a particular future time at which the goods will be provided: 
    the futures market
    She works in futures.
- happening or existing in the future: 
    Of course we'll keep you up to date about any future developments.
    There's an old superstition that young girls going to bed on this night dream of their future husbands.
- The future form of a verb is used when talking about something that will happen or exist: 
    How do you say that in the future tense?
- used when you tell someone something so that it will be known about and can be used in the future: 
    For future reference, could you use the headed paper for any correspondence that leaves this office?
- in order to be used or looked at some time in the future: 
    I filed the documents away for future reference.

weird /wɪəd/
- very strange and unusual, unexpected, or not natural: 
    He was sitting alone by a window with a weird contraption on the table in front of him.
    Her boyfriend's a bit weird but she's nice.
    That's weird - I thought I left my keys on the table but they're not there.
    There is nothing to rival the weird and wonderful things that come out on the Rio streets at carnival time.

luck /lʌk/
- the force that causes things, especially good things, to happen to you by chance and not as a result of your own efforts or abilities: 
    It was just luck that I asked for a job at the right time.
    Then I met this gorgeous woman and I couldn't believe my luck.
    She wears a charm that she thinks brings her good luck.
    He seems to have had a lot of bad luck in his life.
    So your interview's tomorrow? Good luck!
    The best of luck in/with your exams!
- success: 
    Have you had any luck with booking your flight?
    He tried to get into teacher training college but with no luck.
idioms:
 as luck would have it
 bad/hard/tough luck!
 be bad luck on sb
 be down on your luck
 be in/out of luck
 be the luck of the draw
 for (good) luck
 for luck
 more by luck than judgment
 no such luck
 with any luck
 your luck's in!

touch /tʌtʃ/
- to put your hand or another part of your body lightly onto and off something or someone: 
    That paint is wet - don't touch (it).
    He touched the girl on the arm to get her attention.
    The boy touched the worm with (= using, in his hand) a twig.
    The setting sun touched the trees with red (= made them appear red for a short time).
- (of two or more things) to be so close together that there is no space between; to be in contact: 
    He fell asleep as soon as his head touched the pillow.
    She pushed the two bookcases together until they touched/were touching.
- to harm someone, or use or damage something: 
    Please don't touch any of my stuff while I'm away.
- (usually used in negative sentences) to eat or drink something: 
    They didn't touch any of the food we left for them.
    Honestly, I haven't touched a drop (= drunk any alcohol) all night.
- to influence someone or something emotionally, or cause feelings of sympathy in someone: 
    Tragedy touched their lives when their son was 16.
    The TV report about the children's work for charity touched thousands of people's hearts.
- (usually used in negative sentences) to have or reach the same standard (= level of quality) as someone or something: 
    Her novels can't touch (= are not as good as) those of her sister.
    There's no one to touch him as an illustrator of children's books.
- a small amount: 
    "Would you like milk?" "Just a touch."
    There was a touch of irony/humour in her voice.
- To show that an illness is not too serious, you can say you have had a touch of it: 
    I had a touch of flu/hay fever.
- a small addition or detail that makes something better: 
    The speech had several comic touches.
    Using a sailing ship as the company logo was a touch of genius (= a good/clever idea or action).
    The flowers on the table provided the finishing touch.
- slightly: 
    The weather has turned a touch too cold for my liking.
- the ability to know what something is like by feeling it with the fingers: 
    the sense of touch
    I found the right coin in the dark by touch.
- used after an adjective to express how something feels when you put your hand on it: 
    The material was soft to the touch.
- a quick, light movement of one thing, especially a hand, onto and off another thing: 
    I felt a cold touch on my arm.
    At a/the touch of a button, the door opened.
- to communicate or continue to communicate with someone by using a phone or writing to them: 
    Are you still in touch with any of your old school friends?
    Jen and I never kept in touch after college.
    We're in close touch with our office in Spain.
- to stop communicating with someone, usually because they do not live near you now: 
    We lost touch over the years.
- an ability to do things in the stated, especially positive, way: 
    He has a deft touch with tricky painting jobs.
    She gave the job her own special/magic/professional/personal touch.
    I admire her lightness/sureness of touch as a cook.
    He used to be a good writer but I think he's losing his touch.
- in sports such as football, a player's ability to control the ball and make it do what they want, or an occasion when a player controls the ball with their foot: 
    Nicolas Anelka squandered the chance to score when his touch let him down in front of goal. 
    Hazard took several touches before crossing.
- the area outside either of the long edges of the space on which football and rugby are played: 
    Playing for safety, he kicked the ball into touch.
- If you are in touch/out of touch with a subject, activity, or situation, your knowledge about it is recent/not recent: 
    He's not really in touch with what young people are interested in.
    I didn't see any news all the time I was on holiday, so I'm completely out of touch.
idioms:
 touch base
 touch wood
 touch/strike/hit a (raw) nerve
 wouldn't touch sth with a barge pole
phrasal verbs:
 touch down
 touch sth in
 touch sth off
 touch on/upon sth
 touch sth up
 touch sb up

kiss /kɪs/
- to touch with your lips, especially as a greeting, or to press your mouth onto another person's mouth in a sexual way: 
    There was a young couple on the sofa, kissing passionately.
    She kissed him on the mouth.
    He kissed the children good night/goodbye (= kissed them as a part of saying good night/goodbye).
- to gently touch something: 
    The breeze/sun kissed her bare shoulders.
- If you tell a child you will kiss a part of the body that hurts better, you mean you will make it feel better by kissing it: 
    "Mummy, I hurt my knee." "Come here, darling, and let me kiss it better."
- an act of kissing someone: 
    Give your granny a kiss.
    a kiss on the lips
idioms:
 kiss and tell
 kiss sb's arse
 kiss ass
 kiss sth goodbye
 kiss my arse!
 kiss of death
 the kiss of life
phrasal verbs:
 kiss sth off
 kiss sb/sth off

crane /kreɪn/
- a tall metal structure with a long horizontal part, used for lifting and moving heavy objects: 
    The crane lifted the container off the ship.
- a tall bird with long, thin legs and a long neck
- to stretch in order to look at something: 
    He craned forward to see the procession.
    Mike was craning his neck to get the first glimpse of the car.

question /ˈkwes.tʃən/
- a sentence or phrase used to find out information: 
    The police asked me questions all day.
    Why won't you answer my question?
    "So where is the missing money?" "That's a good question." (= I don't know the answer.)
    There will be a question-and-answer session (= a period when people can ask questions) at the end of the talk.
- in an exam, a problem that tests a person's knowledge or ability: 
    Answer/Do as many questions as you can.
- any matter that needs to be dealt with or considered: 
    This raises the question of teacher pay.
    What are your views on the climate change question?
- doubt or confusion: 
    There's no question about (= it is certain) whose fault it is.
    Whether children are reading fewer books is open to question (= there is some doubt about it).
    Her loyalty is beyond question (= there is no doubt about it).
    There's no question that he's guilty.
- the person or thing that is being discussed: 
    I stayed at home on the night in question.
- to ask a person about something, especially officially: 
    Several men were questioned by police yesterday about the burglary.
    68 percent of those questioned in the poll thought noise levels had increased.
- to express doubts about the value or truth of something: 
    I questioned the wisdom of taking so many pills.
    Results from a study questioned whether treatment with the drug really improved survival.
    She gave me a questioning look (= as if she wanted an answer from me).
idioms:
 be a question of doing sth
 be out of the question

obviously /ˈɒb.vi.əs.li/
- in a way that is easy to understand or see: 
    He was in tears and obviously very upset.
    Obviously the school cannot function without teachers.

pain /peɪn/
- a feeling of physical suffering caused by injury or illness: 
    Her symptoms included abdominal pain and vomiting.
    Are you in (= suffering from) pain?
    She was in constant pain.
    These tablets should help to ease the pain.
    I felt a sharp pain in my foot.
    He's been suffering various aches and pains for years.
- emotional or mental suffering: 
    It's a film about the pains and pleasures of parenthood.
    The parents are still in great pain over the death of their child.
- If something pains you, it causes you to feel sad and upset: 
    It pains me to see animals being mistreated.
idioms:
 on/under pain of death
 a pain (in the neck)
 a pain in the arse/backside

straight /streɪt/
- continuing in one direction without bending or curving: 
    a straight line
    She has straight blonde hair.
    Skirts this summer are long and straight.
    Can't you see it? - it's straight ahead (of you)!
    The dog seemed to be coming straight at/for me.
    Go straight along this road and turn left at the traffic lights.
- honest: 
    Just be straight with her and tell her how you feel.
    Tell me straight, would you rather we didn't go tonight?
- If you tell someone something straight out, you say it directly and honestly, without trying to make what you are saying more pleasant: 
    I told her straight out that I didn't love her any more.
- immediately: 
    I got home and went straight to bed.
    We'll go straight to the party after dinner.
    Time is short so I'll get straight to the point (= explain the matter immediately).
- immediately: 
    I knew straight away what you were thinking.
    We don't need to go straight off - we can stay for a little while.
- clearly: 
    You know you've had too much to drink when you can't see straight.
    I'm so tired I can't think straight any more.
- clear or not complicated: 
    It's a straight choice - either you leave him or you stay.
    Let's get this straight - you're travelling to Frankfurt on Monday and Brussels on Tuesday, is that correct?
- level and not sloping to either side: 
    This picture's not straight.
    The shelf isn't straight - it sags in the middle.
- plain and basic, or without anything added: 
    No tonic for me, please, I like my vodka straight.
    Straight pasta is very bland - you need some kind of sauce to make it interesting.
- following one after another without an interruption: 
    They're the only team to have won ten straight games this season.
- tidy, or arranged in order: 
    It only took an hour to get the flat straight after the party.
    Do you have a mirror? - I'll just put my hair straight.
- traditional or serious: 
    He was a nice enough guy, but he was so straight - I always felt I had to be on my best behaviour with him.
    There's a lot of straight theatre at the festival as well as the newer, more experimental stuff.
- not gay
- not using illegal drugs or alcohol: 
    He's been straight for five months.
- neither owing nor owed any money: 
    You bought the tickets, so if I pay for the taxi, we'll be straight.
- the straight part of a racetrack (= the track on which competitors race): 
    And the runners are just coming up to the finishing straight.
- a person who is not gay
idioms:
 straight arrow
 (as) straight as a die
 straight up
 put/set someone straight
 the straight and narrow

grace /ɡreɪs/
- a quality of moving in a smooth, relaxed, and attractive way: 
    Joanna has natural grace and elegance.
- the quality of being pleasantly polite, or a willingness to be fair and honest: 
    They accepted their defeat with good grace.
- ways of behaving that are considered polite and pleasant: 
    Ken is sadly lacking in social graces.
- approval or kindness, especially (in the Christian religion) that is freely given by God to all humans: 
    Betty believed that it was through divine grace that her husband had recovered from his illness.
- through the kindness or help of God: 
    By the grace of God, the pilot managed to land the damaged plane safely.
- a prayer said by Christians before a meal to thank God for the food: 
    The children always say grace at dinnertime.
- a period of time left or allowed before something happens or before something must be done: 
    The exams have been postponed, so the students have a few days' grace before they start.
- to be in a place, on a thing etc. and make it look more attractive: 
    Her face has graced the covers of magazines across the world.
- to honour people by taking part in something: 
    We are delighted that the mayor will be gracing us with his presence at our annual dinner.
    So you've finally decided to grace us with your presence, have you? (= You are late.)
- used to address or refer to a duke, duchess or archbishop
idioms:
 there but for the grace of God (go I)

white /waɪt/
- of a colour like that of snow, milk, or bone: 
    a white T-shirt
    white walls
    a black and white dog
    He's white-haired now.
    "How do you like your coffee?" "White (= with milk or cream) and no sugar, please."
- having a pale face because you are not well, or you are feeling shocked: 
    She was white, and her lips were pale.
- used in the names of various food and drink products, many of which are not pure white but slightly cream, yellow, grey, or transparent: 
    white bread
    white chocolate
    white flour
    white sugar
    white wine
- belonging to the group of people with skin that is pale in colour, who come from or whose family originally came from Europe: 
    He had a black mother and a white father.
    a predominantly white neighbourhood
- a colour like that of snow, milk, or bone: 
    In some countries it is traditional for a bride to wear white.
- white clothes, either worn for a particular activity or job, or put together to be washed at the same time: 
    a girl in tennis whites
    chef/chef's whites
    The medical team was all in hospital whites.
    A red sock got put in the wash with the whites!
- the part of the eye that is white: 
    Don't shoot until you see the whites of their eyes (= until the people are very close to you).
- the transparent part of an egg that surrounds the yolk and becomes white when cooked: 
    Beat four egg whites into stiff peaks.
- a person with skin that is pale in colour, who comes from or whose family originally came from Europe: 
    The neighbourhood is populated mainly by whites.
idioms:
 (as) white as a sheet
 whiter than white

fast /fɑːst/
- moving or happening quickly, or able to move or happen quickly: 
    fast cars
    a fast swimmer
    Computers are getting faster all the time.
    The fast train (= one that stops at fewer stations and travels quickly) to London takes less than an hour.
- If your watch or clock is fast, it shows a time that is later than the correct time.
- used to refer to photographic film that allows you to take pictures when there is not much light or when things are moving quickly
- used to describe something that is full of speed and excitement: 
    It's not a relaxing movie - it's pretty fast and furious.
- without moral principles: 
    a fast crowd
    a fast woman
- If the colour of a piece of clothing is fast, the colour does not come out of the cloth when it is washed.
- quickly: 
    The accident was caused by people driving too fast in bad conditions.
    You'll have to act fast.
    Children's publishing is a fast-growing business.
- firmly fixed: 
    The glue had set and my hand was stuck fast.
    He tried to get away, but she held him fast.
- a period of time when you eat no food: 
    Hundreds of prisoners began a fast in protest about prison conditions.
- to eat no food for a period of time: 
    One day a week he fasts for health reasons.
idioms:
 as fast as your legs would carry you
 play fast and loose with sth/sb
 hold/stand fast

word /wɜːd/
- a single unit of language that has meaning and can be spoken or written: 
    Your essay should be no more than two thousand words long.
    Some words are more difficult to spell than others.
    What's the word for bikini in French?
    It's sometimes difficult to find exactly the right word to express what you want to say.
- used to refer to a word, usually a rude or embarrassing one, by saying only the first letter and not the whole word: 
    You're still not allowed to say the F-word on TV in the US
    So how's the diet going - or would you rather I didn't mention the d-word?
- a short discussion or statement: 
    The manager wants a word.
    Could I have a word (with you) about the sales figures?
    Could you have a quiet word with Mike (= gently explain to him) about the problem?
- angry words: 
    Both competitors had words (= argued) after the match.
    Words were exchanged (= people argued) and then someone threw a punch.
- discussion, rather than action: 
    So far there have been more words than action on the matter of childcare provision.
- to talk to each other for a short time: 
    We exchanged a few words as we were coming out of the meeting.
- a statement of approval and support for someone or something: 
    If you see the captain could you put in a good word for me?
    The critics didn't have a good word to say about the performance.
- news or a message: 
    Has there been any word from Paul since he went to New York?
    We got word of their plan from a former colleague.
    Word of the discovery caused a stir among astronomers.
- a promise: 
    I said I'd visit him and I will keep my word.
    You have my word - I won't tell a soul.
- an order: 
    We're waiting for the word from head office before making a statement.
    The troops will go into action as soon as their commander gives the word.
    At a word from their teacher, the children started to put away their books.
- to choose the words you use when you are saying or writing something: 
    He worded the reply in such a way that he did not admit making the original error.
- used, especially in African American and hip-hop culture, to say that something is true or that you agree with something : 
    "I just wanna be left alone to do my thing." "Word."
- used, especially in African American and hip-hop culture, to ask if something is really true: 
    "He got accepted at all three of the schools he applied to." "Word?" "Yeah."
idioms:
 breathe/say a word
 by word of mouth
 from the word go
 give your word
 have a word in sb's ear
 in a word
 in sb's words
 in your own words
 in words of one syllable
 a man/woman of his/her word
 (upon) my word!
 not get a word in edgeways
 put in a good word for sb
 put the word out
 put words in/into sb's mouth
 take sb's word for it
 take the words out of sb's mouth
 word for word
 word gets around
 word has it
 (the) word is
 your word is your bond
 (the) word is/gets out
 words fail me

food /fuːd/
- something that people and animals eat, or plants absorb, to keep them alive: 
    baby food
    cat food
    plant food
    There was a lot of food and drink at the party.
    I'm allergic to certain foods.
idioms:
 be off your food
 give sb food for thought

none /nʌn/
- not one (of a group of people or things), or not any: 
    None of my children has/have blonde hair.
    "I'd like some more cheese." "I'm sorry there's none left".
    "Do you have any idea how much this cost?" "None at all/None whatsoever."
idioms:
 have none of sth
 none but
 none other than sb/sth
 none the worse, better, richer, etc.
 none too

drive /draɪv/
drive | drove | driven
- to move or travel on land in a motor vehicle, especially as the person controlling the vehicle's movement: 
    I'm learning to drive.
    "Are you going by train?" "No, I'm driving."
    She drives a red sports car.
    They're driving to Chicago on Tuesday.
    We saw their car outside the house and drove on/past/away.
    I drove my daughter to school.
- the crime of operating a motor vehicle after having drunk more alcohol than you are legally allowed to: 
    Smith was arrested and charged with DWI.
- to force someone or something to go somewhere or do something: 
    They used dogs to drive the sheep into a pen.
    A post had been driven (= hit hard) into the ground near the tree.
    By the end of the year, most of the occupying troops had been driven from the city.
    In the end, it was his violent behaviour that drove her to leave home.
- to force someone or something into a particular state, often an unpleasant one: 
    In the course of history, love has driven men and women to strange extremes.
    Recent events have driven the stock market to lows not seen in ten years.
- to make someone extremely annoyed: 
    My mother-in-law has been staying with us this past week and she's driving me crazy.
    He leaves dirty clothes all over the floor and it's driving me mad.
- to make you very excited, especially sexually: 
    When he runs his fingers through my hair, it drives me wild!
- to provide the power to keep a machine working, or to make something happen: 
    The engine drives the wheels.
    Water drives the turbines that produce electricity.
- If you drive a ball, especially in golf or baseball, you hit it hard so that it travels a long way: 
    Slater drove the ball down the fairway.
- used in the names of some roads, especially roads containing houses: 
    12 Maple Drive
- a short private road that leads from a public road to a house or garage: 
    I parked in the drive.
- a planned effort to achieve something: 
    The latest promotional material is all part of a recruitment drive.
    I'm meant to be on an economy drive at the moment, so I'm trying not to spend too much.
- a device for storing computer information: 
    a hard drive
    a DVD drive
    a CD drive
- a journey by car: 
    It's a long drive from Auckland to Wellington.
    Shall we go for a drive this afternoon?
- the system used to power a vehicle: 
    a car with left-hand/right-hand drive (= in which the driver sits in the seat on the left/right).
    a four-wheel drive vehicle
- energy and determination to achieve things: 
    We are looking for someone with drive and ambition.
    He has the drive to succeed.
    Later on in life the sex drive tends to diminish.
- (in sport, especially golf or baseball) a powerful hit that sends a ball a long way
idioms:
 be in the driving seat
 drive your message/point home
 drive sb to drink
 drive a coach and horses through sth
 drive a hard bargain
 drive a wedge between sb
phrasal verbs:
 drive at sth
 drive off

work /wɜːk/
- an activity, such as a job, that a person uses physical or mental effort to do, usually for money: 
    I've got so much work to do.
    Carrying heavy loads around all day is hard work.
    What time do you start/finish work?
    Aileen does most of the work around the house.
    What sort of work are you experienced in?
    She tends to wear quite dressy clothes for work.
    Roger's work involves a lot of travelling.
- the material used by someone at work, or what they produce: 
    I'll have to take this work home with me and finish it there.
    All the furniture is the work of residents here.
- a place where a person goes specially to do their job: 
    Do you have far to travel to work each day?
    Thousands of people are seriously injured at work every year.
    When does she leave for work?
- something created as a result of effort, especially a painting, book, or piece of music: 
    The museum has many works by Picasso as well as other modern painters.
    the poetic works of Tagore
- surgery (= a medical operation) that is done to improve someone's appearance: 
    She denies having had any cosmetic surgery, but I think she's definitely had some work done.
- everything that you might want or expect to find in a particular situation: 
    The bridegroom was wearing a morning suit, gloves, top hat - the works.
    And can I have two large pizzas with the works (= with all available types of food on top).
- an industrial building, especially one where a lot of people are employed: 
    a steel/iron works
- the parts of a machine, especially those that move: 
    If you take the back off this clock, you can see its/the works.
- force multiplied by distance moved
- to be effective or successful: 
    Her idea for reorganizing the department will never work in practice.
    The tablets will start to work in a few minutes.
    Some people think I'm weird doing meditation, but it works for me and that's all that matters.
    Arguably, the monarchy worked well for many centuries.
- to do a job, especially the job you do to earn money: 
    Where do you work?
    He works at the hospital.
    She worked as a cleaner at the hospital.
    Mike works for a computer company.
    I work in management training.
    Have you any experience of working with children who have learning difficulties?
    It's not unusual for a junior doctor to work a 70 or sometimes an 80-hour week.
- to make a person or animal do a job: 
    The instructors worked us very hard on the survival course.
    Many of the animals were worked to death.
- If a machine or device works, it operates, especially correctly and without failure, and if you work it, you make it operate: 
    Our phone isn't working.
    You need a team of about twelve people to work a furnace this size.
    The pump works off/on (= uses) wind power.
    The pump is worked by (= uses to operate) wind power.
    I can't get the radio to work.
- to succeed gradually in becoming something or cause a person or thing to become something, either by making an effort or by making many small movements: 
    He started as a technician and worked his way up through the company to become managing director.
    Eventually she worked her way through (= read) the huge amount of technical papers.
    Vibration tends to make nuts and screws work themselves loose.
    The screws had worked loose over time.
- to arrange for something to happen, especially by not using official methods and/or by being clever: 
    I don't know how she worked it, but she retired at 50.
    Can we work things (out) so that there's always someone here to answer the phone during office hours?
- to shape, change, or process a substance: 
    Working iron requires higher temperatures than bronze.
    Gently work the butter into the flour until there are no lumps left.
- used to refer to work of a particular type: 
    homework
    paperwork
- used to refer to a skill or activity using a particular type of material: 
    Girls and boys study woodwork and metalwork at this school.
- used to name things made of a particular material: 
    stonework
    ironwork
idioms:
 all work and no play (makes Jack a dull boy)
 be at work
 be in work
 be out of work
 get/set to work
 have your work cut out (for you)
 in the works
 work a treat
 work like a charm
 work wonders/miracles
 work your fingers to the bone
 work like a dog
 work till/until you drop
 work your way around to sth
phrasal verbs:
 work against/for sb
 work at sth
 work sth off
 work on sth
 work on sb
 work sth out
 work out
 work sb out
 work (sth) out
 work sb over
 work through sth
 work up sth
 work sb up
 work (yourself) up to sth

marry /ˈmær.i/
- to become the legally accepted husband or wife of someone in an official or religious ceremony: 
    Men tend to marry later than women.
    Paul married Lucy four years ago.
    They don't have any plans to marry at present.
- to perform the ceremony of marriage as a priest or official: 
    The royal couple were married by the Archbishop of Canterbury .
- to combine two different qualities: 
    a design which marries fun with function
idioms:
 marry beneath you
 marry in haste, repent at leisure
 not be the marrying kind
phrasal verbs:
 marry sb off
 marry up (sth)

light /laɪt/
- the brightness that comes from the sun, fire, etc. and from electrical devices, and that allows things to be seen: 
    a bright light
    fluorescent/ultraviolet light
    a beam/ray of light
    Light was streaming in through the open door.
    It's a north-facing room so it doesn't get much light (= brightness from the sun).
- a piece of equipment that produces light, such as a lamp or a bulb: 
    Could you switch/turn the light on/off, please?
    She could see the city lights in the distance.
    As the lights went down, the audience grew quiet.
    My front bike light isn't working.
- something that will produce a flame and cause burning, such as a match or a cigarette lighter: 
    Have you got a light, please?
- to cause something to start burning: 
    The lamp caught fire and set light to the curtains.
- animal lungs eaten as food: 
    The French like to poach lights before frying them with onions, tomatoes, and a wine sauce. 
    They used the whole animal, including liver and lights.
- not weighing a lot: 
    Here, take this bag - it's quite light.
    He's a few pounds lighter than he used to be.
    How do you get your cakes so wonderfully light, Amy?
    He has a very light (= gentle) touch, which is what is required in massage.
    She's very light on her feet (= she moves gracefully).
- Light clothes are made of thin material that allows you to be cool: 
    a light summer dress
- lit by the natural light of the day: 
    The big windows make the room feel wonderfully light and airy.
    It gets light very early these summer mornings.
    Summer is coming and the evenings are getting lighter (= getting dark later).
- (of colours) pale: 
    light blue/green
- entertaining and easily understood, but not serious and not intended to make you think: 
    I want some light reading for the summer holidays - a romance or something.
    A lively argument between the two main speakers provided some light relief (= something enjoyable or amusing) in an otherwise dull conference.
- to behave as if a situation, especially a problem, is not serious or important: 
    It is easy to make light of other people's problems.
- not great in strength or amount: 
    A light wind was blowing.
    The traffic was quite light so we got through London quickly.
    It's only light rain - you don't need an umbrella.
- someone who eats/drinks/smokes only a little
- someone who is easily woken up by noise, etc.
- A light meal is small and easy to digest: 
    I don't eat much for lunch - just a light snack.
- used to describe alcoholic drinks that are not strong in flavour: 
    It's described on the label as "light, fruity wine".
- needing only a very small amount of effort: 
    light exercise, such as walking
    a little light housework
- A light sentence in prison is a short one: 
    He got off with a fairly light sentence because it was his first conviction.
- to do something quickly and easily: 
    Heather made light work of painting the walls.
    You made light work of that chocolate cake (= you ate it quickly)!
- to start to burn or to make something start to burn: 
    to light a fire
    I can't get the cooker to light.
    He lit his fifth cigarette in half an hour.
- to produce light that makes an object or area bright or easy to see: 
    The stage had been lit with candles.
    Fireworks lit up the sky (= made the sky bright).
idioms:
 bring sth to light
 cast/shed/throw light on sth
 come to light
 go out like a light
 in the light of sth
 keep the lights on
 light at the end of the tunnel
 the light of your life
 show someone in a bad light
 (as) light as a feather
 light a fire under sb
phrasal verbs:
 light on/upon sth
 light (sth) up

test /test/
- a way of discovering, by questions or practical activities, what someone knows, or what someone or something can do or is like: 
    The class are doing/having a spelling test today.
    She had to take/do an aptitude test before she got the job.
- a medical examination of part of your body in order to find out how healthy it is or what is happening with it: 
    a blood/urine test
    an eye test
    a pregnancy test
    The doctors have done some tests to try and find out what's wrong with her.
- an act of using something to find out if it is working correctly or how effective it is: 
    The new missiles are currently undergoing tests.
- a situation that shows how good something is: 
    Driving on that icy road was a real test of my skill.
- a 
test match : 
    Australia won the test by 197 runs.
- to do something in order to discover if something is safe, works correctly, etc., or if something is present: 
    The manufacturers are currently testing the new engine.
    They tested her blood for signs of the infection.
- to give someone a set of questions, in order to measure their knowledge or ability: 
    Will you test me on the chemistry I've been learning?
- If a situation tests someone, it proves how good, strong, etc. they are: 
    That lecture really tested my powers of endurance, it was so boring.
- to do a medical examination of part of someone's body or of a particular physical ability
idioms:
 test the keeper
 test the water(s)
 put sth to the test
phrasal verbs:
 test sth out

drop /drɒp/
drop | -pp-
- to fall or to allow something to fall: 
    She dropped her keys.
    I'm always dropping things.
    Amanda dropped her sunglasses in/into the fountain.
    The book dropped from/off the shelf.
    Don't drop it!/Don't let it drop!
- to die suddenly and unexpectedly: 
    He dropped dead on the squash court at the age of 43.
- to write someone a letter, especially a short informal one: 
    Just drop me a line when you decide on a date.
- to tell someone something in a way that is not direct: 
    She dropped a hint that she'd like to come to the party.
- to not pronounce the letter h at the beginning of words in which it should be pronounced
- to move to a lower level, or cause something to move to a lower level: 
    The water level in the flooded region has finally begun to drop.
    The land drops (away) (= slopes down) sharply behind the barrier.
    We had to drop our prices because of the recession.
- to stop doing or planning something, especially an activity: 
    I'm going to drop yoga and do aerobics instead.
    Can you drop what you're doing and help me with this report?
- to stop including someone in a group or team: 
    He's been dropped from the team because of injury.
- to take someone to a particular place, usually in a car, and leave them there: 
    They dropped me off at the main entrance.
    I dropped him at the library and went shopping.
- to become available for people to buy, listen to, or watch, especially using the internet; to make something available like this: 
    It's an exciting time for her, with the tour starting and the record about to drop.
    We heard that rapper Dave was about to drop a new album.
- a small round-shaped amount of liquid: 
    I thought I felt a drop of rain.
    There were little drops of paint on the kitchen floor.
- a small amount of liquid you can drink: 
    I'll have a drop more juice, please.
    "Would you like some milk?" "Just a drop, please."
- liquid medicine given in very small amounts: 
    eye/nose/ear drops
- a small piece of sweet food made of sugar: 
    fruit/pear drops
    chocolate drops
- the distance from one thing to something lower: 
    There's a drop of two metres from the window to the ground.
- a reduction in the amount or level of something: 
    The recent drop in magazine subscriptions is causing some concern.
- the act of delivering things such as supplies, medicine, etc., often by dropping them from an aircraft: 
    a food drop
    The helicopter made a drop of much-needed supplies to the stranded hikers.
- the situation in which something is left in a place and later collected by someone else, usually a spy
idioms:
 be fit/ready to drop
 drop sb/sth like a hot potato
 drop a brick/clanger
 drop dead!
 drop everything
 drop it/the subject
 drop the ball
 a drop in the ocean
 a drop too much (to drink)
 at the drop of a hat
phrasal verbs:
 drop behind
 drop by/in
 drop off
 drop sb/sth off
 drop out

frank /fræŋk/
- honest, sincere, and telling the truth, even when this might be awkward or make other people uncomfortable: 
    a full and frank discussion
    There followed a frank exchange of views.
    The magazine, which gives frank advice about sex and romance, is aimed at the teenage market.
    To be perfectly frank with you, I don't think she's the person for the job.
- to print a mark on a stamp so that the stamp cannot be used again, or to print a mark on an envelope to show that the cost of sending it has been paid

sent /sent/
- past simple and past participle of send

city /ˈsɪt.i/
- a large town: 
    Many of the world's cities have populations of more than five million.
    Wellington is the capital city (= centre of government) of New Zealand.
- any town in the UK that has a cathedral (= large, important church): 
    The city of Ely has about 15,000 inhabitants.
- the government of a city: 
    It's the city's responsibility to maintain the pavements.
    My father works for the city.
- the business centre of London where the large financial organizations are, such as the Bank of England: 
    He works in the City.
    a City analyst
- the financial organizations as a group and the people who work for them: 
    The City acted swiftly to the news of a fall in the value of sterling.

dream /driːm/
- a series of events or images that happen in your mind when you are sleeping: 
    a good/bad dream
    a recurring dream
    I had a very strange dream about you last night.
    Paul had a dream that he won the lottery.
- something that you want to happen very much but that is not very likely: 
    It's always been my dream to have flying lessons.
    Winning all that money was a dream come true.
- the best that you can imagine: 
    Win the house of your dreams in our fantastic competition!
- the perfect house, job, etc., that you want more than any other
- to experience events and images in your mind while you are sleeping: 
    What did you dream about last night?
    I often dream about/of flying.
    I dreamed that I was having a baby.
- to imagine that you have heard, done, or seen something when you have not: 
    Did you say that you were going tonight or did I dream it?
    I thought I'd bought some polish and it seems I haven't - I must have been dreaming.
- to imagine something that you would like to happen: 
    I dream of living on a tropical island.
    He never dreamed that one day he would become president.
- used to tell someone that what they are hoping for is not likely to happen or to be true: 
    "Watch. All I have to do is wink at her, and she'll come over here." "Dream on, Dave!"
idioms:
 be (living) in a dream world
 beyond your wildest dreams
 in a dream
 in your dreams!
 not/never in your wildest dreams
 work/go like a dream
 wouldn't dream of sth/doing sth
phrasal verbs:
 dream about/of sth
 dream sth up

protect /prəˈtekt/
- to keep someone or something safe from injury, damage, or loss: 
    clothing that protects you against the cold
    It's important to protect your skin from the harmful effects of the sun.
    Surely the function of the law is to protect everyone's rights.
    Of course the company will act to protect its financial interests in the country if war begins.
    Patients' names have been changed to protect their privacy.
    Public pressure to protect the environment is strong and growing.
    Vitamin C may help protect against cancer.
- If a government protects a part of its country's trade or industry, it helps it by taxing goods from other countries.
- to provide someone with insurance against injury, damages, etc.

twenty /ˈtwen.ti/
- the number 20: 
    nineteen, twenty, twenty-one
    space for twenty people

class /klɑːs/
- a group of students who are taught together at school, college, or university: 
    Which class are you in this year?
    She gave the whole class extra homework for a week.
    My class (= the people in my class) was/were rather noisy this morning.
    Okay, class, settle down and open your books.
- a period of time in which students are taught something: 
    My last class ends at four o'clock.
    I was told off for talking in class.
    Who takes/teaches your environmental studies class?
    I missed my aerobics class yesterday.
    Classes have been cancelled today because of a staff meeting.
- a group of students who successfully finished their studies in a particular year
- a group of people within society who have the same economic and social position: 
    The Labour Party has lost a lot of support among the working class.
    She belongs to the rich American upper class.
    We live in a middle class neighbourhood.
    She comes from an upper middle class background.
    He was a member of the ruling classes.
    She's studying the class structure of Japan.
- a group into which goods, services, or people are put according to their standard: 
    Whenever I travel by train, I always travel first class.
    first/second class mail
    a business/economy class ticket
    When it comes to mathematics, he's in a different class to his peers.
- in the UK, the standard that someone has reached in their university degree: 
    What class of degree did you get?
    He graduated with a second-class honours degree in physics.
- in UK law, a group of illegal drugs classified according to how dangerous they are thought to be and how severe the punishment is for using or selling them, with class A the most dangerous : 
    He was charged with possession of a class A drug, namely heroin.
- to be the best at a particular activity: 
    As a long-distance runner, she's in a class of her own.
- to be something of such a high quality that nothing can be compared to it
- to be much better at doing something than you: 
    I can't play chess with him. He's completely out of my class!
- the quality of being stylish or fashionable: 
    She's got real class.
- a group of related plants or animals, in the general classification of plants and animals
- to consider someone or something to belong to a particular group because of their qualities: 
    I'm 17, but I'm still classed as a child when I travel by bus.
    I would class her among/with the top ten American novelists.
- very good: 
    a class act
    He's a class golfer.

surprise /səˈpraɪz/
- an unexpected event: 
    Don't tell Anne we've arranged a party for her - I want it to be a surprise.
    It was a wonderful/nasty surprise to get home and find the letter.
    Last night's heavy snow came as a complete surprise.
    You're always full of surprises (= doing unexpected things).
    I wish you wouldn't keep springing surprises on me (= telling me unexpected things or causing unexpected things to happen).
    They mounted a surprise attack at dawn.
    My uncle paid us a surprise visit yesterday.
- the feeling caused by something unexpected happening: 
    He looked at her in/with surprise.
    To my great surprise, they agreed to all our demands.
- to make someone feel surprise: 
    The news surprised everyone.
    It doesn't surprise me that their parents don't want them to get married.
    It will not surprise anyone to learn that the offer has been rejected.
    Janet was surprised how quickly the time passed.
- to find, catch, or attack someone when they are not expecting it: 
    The robbers had just opened the safe when they were surprised by the police.
    His mother surprised him helping himself to her gin.
idioms:
 surprise, surprise

forever /fəˈre.vər/
- for all time: 
    I like the house but I don't imagine I'll live there forever.
- for an extremely long time or too much time: 
    We'd better walk a bit quicker - it's going to take forever if we go at this pace.
- very often: 
    She's forever telling him she's going to leave him but she never actually does.
- existing or happening for all time in the future: 
    Today, more than 500,000 US children wait in foster care for a forever home. 

poor /pɔːr/
- having little money and/or few possessions: 
    Most of the world's poorest countries are in Africa.
    He came from a poor immigrant family.
- to have very little of a particular substance or quality: 
    Unfortunately, Iceland is poor in natural resources.
- not good; being of a very low quality, quantity, or standard: 
    a poor harvest
    Last year's exam results were fairly poor.
    I was always very poor at maths at school.
    Dad had been in poor health for several years.
    At last month's meeting, attendance was poor.
- deserving sympathy: 
    That cold sounds terrible, you poor thing!
    Look at that dog - the poor thing only has three legs.
- poor people considered together as a group: 
    housing for the poor
idioms:
 be as poor as church mice
 come/be a poor second, third, etc.
 poor relation

mad /mæd/
mad | madder or maddest
- mentally ill, or unable to behave in a reasonable way: 
    I think I must be going mad.
    Do I look like some mad old woman in this hat?
- extremely silly or stupid: 
    You're mad to walk home alone at this time of night.
    He must be mad spending all that money on a coat.
    Some of the things she does are completely mad.
- very angry or annoyed: 
    He's always complaining and it makes me so mad.
    Are you still mad at me?
    Kerry got really mad with Richard for not doing the washing up.
    Bill's untidiness drives me mad.
- very angry or annoyed: 
    He's always complaining and it makes me so mad.
    Are you still mad at me?
    Kerry got really mad with Richard for not doing the washing up.
    Bill's untidiness drives me mad.
- hurrying or excited and not having time to think or plan: 
    We made a mad dash for the train.
    I was in a mad panic/rush trying to get everything ready.
- to love someone or something: 
    He's the first real boyfriend she's had and she's mad about him.
    He's mad about football.
- to want someone or something very much, or to be very interested in someone or something: 
    Everyone's mad for him and I just don't see the attraction.
- extremely interested in cars, clothes, sex, etc.: 
    She's 16 and clothes-mad.
idioms:
 (as) mad as a hatter/March hare
 don't get mad, get even
 like mad

except /ɪkˈsept/
- not including; but not: 
    The museum is open daily except Monday(s).
    The government has few options except to keep interest rates high.
    It's cool and quiet everywhere except in the kitchen.
    Everyone was there except for Sally.
    There is nothing to indicate the building's past, except (for) the fireplace.
idioms:
 except that

gun /ɡʌn/
- a weapon that bullets or shells (= explosive containers) are fired from: 
    The British police do not carry guns.
    You could hear the noise of guns firing in the distance.
- in sport, a device that makes a very loud sudden noise as a signal to start a race: 
    At the gun, the runners sprinted away down the track.
- a device that you hold in your hand and use for sending out a liquid or object: 
    a spray gun
- a person who is paid to shoot and kill someone
- to make an engine operate at a higher speed: 
    You must have been really gunning the engine to get here on time.
idioms:
 be under the gun
 with guns blazing
 be gunning for sb
 be gunning for sth
phrasal verbs:
 gun sb down

know /nəʊ/
know | knew | known
- to have information in your mind: 
    "Where did he go?" "I don't know."
    "What does it cost?" "Ask Kate. She'll know."
    She knows the name of every kid in the school.
    I don't know anything about this.
    We don't know when he's arriving.
    I don't know (= understand) what all the fuss is about.
    I just knew (that) it was going to be a disaster.
    She knew (= was aware) (that) something was wrong.
    Even small amounts of these substances are known to cause skin problems.
    The authorities know him to be (= know that he is) a cocaine dealer.
- used to ask someone to tell you a piece of information: 
    Do you know the time?
    Do you know where the Post Office is?
- to be certain: 
    I know (that) she'll be really pleased to hear the news.
    I don't know whether I should tell her or not.
    The party is at Sarah's house as/so far as I know (= I think but I am not certain).
- to be familiar with or have experience and understanding of: 
    I've known Daniel since we were at school together.
    She grew up in Paris so she knows it well.
    I've seen the film "Casablanca" so many times that I know a lot of it by heart (= I know it in my memory).
    Knowing Karen (= from my experience of her in the past), she'll have done a good job.
    I have known (= experienced) great happiness in my life.
- If you know a subject, you are familiar with it and understand it: 
    Do you know about computers?
    She knows her subject inside out (= very well).
- If you know a language, you can speak and understand it: 
    Do you know any French?
- to recognize someone or something: 
    That's Peter alright - I'd know him anywhere!
    I know a bargain when I see one.
- to be able to do something because you have the necessary knowledge: 
    Do you know how to print on this computer?
- to spend time with someone or something so that you gradually learn more about him, her, or it: 
    The first couple of meetings are for the doctor and patient to get to know each other.
    I'll need a few weeks to get to know the system.
- to have heard the name of a person but not seen or talked to them
- If you know someone by sight, that person looks familiar to you, but is not a friend of yours.
- to have knowledge about something that most people do not have: 
    This resort is considered by those who are in the know to have the best downhill skiing in Europe.
idioms:
 before you know it
 be known to be/do sth
 Goodness/God/Heaven/Christ knows
 how was I to know?
 I don't know
 I don't know about you but...
 I don't know how, what, why, etc.
 I know
 I'll, he'll, etc. have you know
 know sth back to front
 know sth like the back of your hand
 know your own mind
 know your place
 know your stuff
 know your way around sth
 know all the answers
 know all there is to know about sth
 know best
 know better (than to do sth)
 know better (than sb)
 know the score
 know what you are doing
 know what you are talking about
 (you) know what I mean
 know what it is (like) to
 know what's what
 know which side your bread is buttered (on)
 sth knows no bounds
 not know sb from Adam
 not know the first thing about sth
 not know the meaning of the word
 not know what has hit you
 not know where to put yourself
 not know where/which way to turn
 not know whether to laugh or cry
 not that I know of
 there's no knowing
 (well) what do you know!
 wouldn't know sth if you fell over one/it
 you know
 you know something?
 you never know
phrasal verbs:
 know sth from sth
 know of sb/sth

dance /dɑːns/
- to move the body and feet to music: 
    We danced all night.
    We went dancing at a club.
    What kind of music do you like dancing to?
    Who was she dancing with at the party last night?
    Can you dance the tango?
    We played our music and danced the night away.
- to move quickly and lightly: 
    The daffodils were dancing in the breeze.
    She watched the sunlight dancing on the water.
- a particular series of movements that you perform to music or the type of music that is connected with it: 
    The band played a slow dance.
- a social occasion where people dance, especially a formal occasion in a large room: 
    They're having an end-of-term dinner-dance.
- the act of moving your feet and body to music: 
    We had a dance.
    The bride's father gets the first dance at the wedding.
    a dance class
- the art of performing dances, especially as a form of entertainment: 
    The performers tell the story through song and dance.
idioms:
 be dancing in the streets
 dance attendance on sb
 dance to sb's tune

take /teɪk/
take | took | taken
- to remove something, especially without permission: 
    Has anything been taken (= stolen)?
    Here's your pen - I took it by mistake.
    All her possessions had been taken from her.
- to subtract a number (= remove it from another number): 
    If you take 4 (away) from 12 you get 8.
- to move something or someone from one place to another: 
    The weather forecast said rain, so take your umbrella (with you) when you go out.
    The suitcases were taken to San Antonio by mistake.
    Take the book up/down to the third floor of the library.
    I suggested that he should take her some chocolates/take some chocolates to her (= bring them to her as a present).
- to accept or have: 
    Do they take credit cards here?
    Do you take milk in your coffee?
    This container will take (= has room for) six litres.
    Which newspaper do you take (= regularly buy)?
    He continually abuses her, and she just sits there and takes it.
    If you think I'm going to take that lying down (= accept it without complaining), you're very much mistaken.
    I take the/your point (= accept the argument), but I still don't think you should have gone.
- used when you want to mention something as a particular example of what you are talking about: 
    I've been very busy recently. Take last week, I had meetings every night after work, except Friday.
- If you take someone or something to be something, or if you take someone or something for something, you accept or believe that they are that thing: 
    These creatures are generally taken to be descended from primitive fishes.
    I could have taken him for (= believed that he was) your brother.
    I'm not going to forge his signature for you! What do you take me for? (= You should not believe I could do a thing like that.)
- to not be able to deal with an unpleasant situation: 
    I can't take it any more. I'm leaving.
- accept or refuse the offer completely: 
    That's my final offer - you can take it or leave it.
- to move in order to hold something in the hand(s): 
    Can you take this bag while I open the door?
    He took my arm and led me outside.
    Take an egg and break it into the bowl.
    He took hold of the plant's root and pulled.
- to go somewhere with someone, often paying for that person or being responsible for them: 
    We're taking the kids to the zoo on Saturday.
    I took my elderly parents to look at some new houses.
    Will you take me swimming tomorrow?
- to show someone how to get to somewhere by going there with them: 
    Let me take you to your room.
- to go to a social event with someone: 
    Who's taking you to the dance?
- to travel somewhere by using a particular form of transport or a particular vehicle, route, etc.: 
    I always take the train - it's less hassle than a car.
    She took the 10.30 flight to Edinburgh.
    If you take the road on the left, you'll come to the post office.
- to need: 
    Parachuting takes a lot of nerve.
    Transitive verbs take a direct object.
    His story took some believing (= was difficult to believe).
- to wear a particular size of clothes or shoes: 
    What size shoes do you take?
- If something takes a particular time, that period is needed in order to complete it: 
    The cooking process only takes ten minutes.
    How long does this paint take to dry?
    It took us all day to drive home.
- to act or happen over a short period of time: 
    I'm just going to the shops - I won't take long.
- to need a long time: 
    Broken bones always take time to heal.
- to measure something: 
    Nurses took my temperature and blood pressure.
- to swallow or use a medicine or drug, especially in a regular way: 
    Take this medicine three times a day.
    Do you think she takes drugs?
- to do or perform: 
    Shelley is taking (= studying) economics at university.
    The Archbishop took our service of thanksgiving.
    Mr Marshall takes us for (= teaches us) physics.
- used with many nouns to make a verb phrase that is equal in meaning to the related verb: 
    I think we'll take a break (= we'll stop for a break) there.
    If you're tired you should take a rest (= you should rest).
    I always like to take a walk (= to walk) after lunch.
- to think about something or someone in a particular way: 
    We're taking the bomb threats very seriously.
- to understand something in a particular way: 
    I was just teasing him, but he took it the wrong way.
    I'm not sure whether to take that as a compliment or an insult.
    She gave a nod, which we took to mean that she agreed.
- to have or come to have a particular feeling or opinion: 
    He doesn't take any interest in his children.
    Don't take any notice of the cameras.
    She takes offence too easily.
    They took pity on the stray cat and fed it.
    I take the view that fuel should be heavily taxed to reduce road use.
- to surprise someone: 
    The sudden noise took her by surprise.
- to receive money from sales or as payment for entrance to an event: 
    The show took an astonishing $100,000 in its first week.
- to get possession of something or someone: 
    Rebels ambushed the train and took several prisoners.
    The Liberals need just 200 more votes to take the seat from Labour.
    With these wins, the Democrats have now taken the House back from the Republicans.
    Centre-left parties look set to take power.
    Adam, I'd like you to take control of the aircraft now.
- to write: 
    I hope you're all taking notes.
- to work or perform as expected: 
    These new plants haven't taken - they don't like this dry soil.
- money that is received from sales or as payment for entrance to an event: 
    The box office take was huge for the new show.
- the filming of a scene (= small part of a film): 
    This scene needed ten takes before we felt it was right.
- an opinion about something: 
    We'd love to hear your take on this issue.
- a version of something that shows someone's attitude towards it: 
    The restaurant offers a new take on traditional French cooking.
idioms:
 be like taking candy from a baby
 can take it or leave it
 I take it
 if you take my meaning
 point taken
 take it upon yourself to do sth
 take your time
 take one (thing) at a time
 take sth as it comes
 take that!
 take the time
 take a walk!
 will not take no for an answer
 on the take
phrasal verbs:
 take sb aback
 take after sb
 take against sb
 take sth apart
 take sb apart
 take sth away
 take sth back
 take sb back
 take sb down
 take sth down
 take sth from sb
 take sth in
 take sb in
 take sth off
 take off
 take sb off
 take sth on
 take on sth
 take sb on
 take sth out
 take sb out
 take sb/sth out
 take it out of sb
 take sb out of himself/herself
 take sth out on sb
 take (sth) over
 take sb round (sth/somewhere)
 take sb through sth
 take to sb/sth
 take to sth
 take to somewhere
 take sth up
 take sb up on sth
 take up with sb

especially /ɪˈspeʃ.əl.i/
- very much; more than usual or more than other people or things: 
    She's not especially interested in sport.
    I love Australian wines, especially the white wines.
- for a particular reason: 
    I chose this especially for your new house.
    They invited her to speak especially because of her experience in inner cities.

situation /ˌsɪtʃ.uˈeɪ.ʃən/
- the set of things that are happening and the conditions that exist at a particular time and place: 
    the economic/political situation
    Her news put me in a difficult situation.
    "Would you get involved in a fight?" "It would depend on the situation."
    I'll worry about it if/when/as the situation arises (= if/when/as it happens).
- a job: 
    My sister has a good situation as a teacher in the local school.
- the position of something, especially a town, building, etc.: 
    The house's situation in the river valley is perfect.

besides /bɪˈsaɪdz/
- in addition to; also: 
    She won't mind if you're late - besides, it's hardly your fault.
    Do you play any other sports besides basketball?

week /wiːk/
- a period of seven days, especially either from Monday to Sunday or from Sunday to Saturday: 
    last/this/next week
    We go to the cinema about once a week.
    Will you be going to next week's class?
    It usually takes about four weeks to get the forms processed.
    Don't do anything strenuous for a week or two.
    It'll be weeks (= several weeks) before the flood damage is cleaned up.
- the five days from Monday to Friday, the usual working period for many people: 
    We're usually too tired to go out much during the week.
- one week after the day mentioned: 
    The first performance of the play is a week (from) today/tomorrow.
    Our holiday starts a week on Saturday.
    She has to go back to see the doctor Friday week.
- one week before the day mentioned: 
    It was his birthday a week ago last Friday.
    The problems with the TV started a week last Monday.
- the amount of hours spent working during a week or the number of days on which a person works: 
    A lot of farm workers work a six-day week.
- each week during a period of time: 
    We could see his health deteriorate week by week.
- regularly or continuously for many weeks: 
    I go to aerobics three times a week, week in, week out.
idioms:
 of the week

himself /hɪmˈself/
- used to refer to a male object of a verb that is the same person or animal as the subject of the verb: 
    He'd cut himself shaving.
    Most nights he would cry himself to sleep.
- used to emphasize a particular man, boy, or male animal: 
    Did you want to talk to the chairman himself, or could his personal assistant help you?
    Tom was going to buy a bookcase, but in the end he made one himself.
- If a man or boy does something by himself, he does it alone or without help from anyone else: 
    Little Timmy made that snowman all by himself.
    Why did you leave your little brother by himself?
- for his use only: 
    Johnny's got the apartment to himself next week.
- not to be, seem, or feel as happy or as healthy as usual: 
    Is Tom all right? He doesn't seem quite himself this morning.
- used when describing or asking about a man's state of mind when he is physically ill: 
    He's well enough in himself - he just can't shake this cold off.
- used to refer to an object of a verb that is the same person or animal as the subject of the verb, when referring to a person or animal whose sex is not known or not considered to be important: 
    Any fool can teach himself to type.
idioms:
 keep to himself

act /ækt/
- to behave in the stated way: 
    Don't be so silly - you're acting like a child!
    He acted as if he'd never met me before.
- to do something for a particular purpose or to solve a problem: 
    Engineers acted quickly to repair the damaged pipes.
    She acted without thinking.
    Who is acting for/on behalf of (= who is representing) the defendant?
    He never acts on other people's advice (= does what other people suggest).
    Acting on impulse (= without thinking first) can get you into a lot of trouble.
- to have an effect: 
    The anaesthetic acted quickly.
- to perform a part in a film, play, etc.: 
    Ellis Pike was chosen to act the part of the lawyer in the film.
    Have you ever acted in a play before?
- to behave in a particular, usually bad, way: 
    Why are you always acting the fool?
- something that you do: 
    an act of aggression/bravery/madness/terrorism
    a kind/thoughtless/selfish act
    The simple act of telling someone about a problem can help.
    Primitive people regarded storms as an act of God.
    artistic representations of the sexual act
- behaviour that hides your real feelings or intentions: 
    Was she really upset or was that just an act?
- a person or group that performs a short piece in a show, or the piece that they perform: 
    a comedy/juggling/trapeze act
    Our next act is a very talented young musician.
- a part of a play or opera: 
    Shakespeare's plays were written in five acts.
    The hero does not enter until the second act/Act Two.
- a law or formal decision made by a parliament or other group of people who make the laws for their country: 
    an Act of Parliament
    the Betting and Gaming Act
    Almost two hundred suspects were detained in the UK last year under the Prevention of Terrorism Act.
    The state legislature passed an act banning the sale of automatic weapons.
idioms:
 be a hard/tough act to follow
 do a disappearing/vanishing act
 get your act together
 get/muscle in on the act
 put on an act
phrasal verbs:
 act as sth
 act out
 act sth out
 act up

worth /wɜːθ/
- having a particular value, especially in money: 
    Our house is worth £200,000.
    Heroin worth about $5 million was seized.
- having a particular amount of money: 
    She must be worth at least half a million.
- to be of reasonable or good value for the price: 
    Four days' car hire costs £150, which is well worth it for the freedom it gives you.
- to be important or interesting enough to receive a particular action: 
    I think this matter is worth our attention.
    When you're in Reykjavík, the National Museum is worth a visit.
- to be important or useful to have or do: 
    There's nothing worth reading in this newspaper.
    If you are a young, inexperienced driver, it is worth having comprehensive insurance.
    It's worth remembering that prices go up in February.
- enjoyable enough or producing enough advantages to make the necessary effort, risk, pain, etc. seem acceptable: 
    It was a long climb to the top of the hill, but it was worth it for the view from the top.
    Don't tire yourself out, Geri, it's really not worth it.
    After the plastic surgery I had two black eyes and my face was very swollen. But I knew it would be worth it.
    Forget him, sweetheart, - he's just not worth it.
- the amount of money that something can be sold for; value: 
    The estimated worth of the plastics and petrochemical industry is about $640 billion.
- the amount of something that you could buy for £20, $100, etc.: 
    $4 million worth of souvenirs and gift items have been produced for the event.
- the importance or usefulness of something or someone: 
    He felt as though he had no worth.
    She has proved her worth on numerous occasions.
    The study proved that women were paid less than men holding jobs of comparable worth.
- an amount of something that will last a month, a year, etc. or that takes a month, a year, etc. to do: 
    a month's worth of grocery shopping
    I've done three hour's worth of work this morning.
idioms:
 be worth your/its weight in gold
 be worth your while
 for all you are worth
 for what it's worth
 if it/a thing is worth doing, it's worth doing well
 make sth/it worth your while
 not worth the paper sth is printed/written on
 what's it worth (to you)?
 worth your salt
 get your money's worth

top /tɒp/
- the highest place or part: 
    She waited for me at the top of the stairs.
    There were flags on the tops of many of the buildings.
    There was a pile of books on top of (= on) the table.
- the flat upper surface of something: 
    The top of the table/desk was badly scratched.
- any piece of light clothing worn on the part of the body above the waist: 
    a skimpy top
    a pyjama top
    I need a top to go with these trousers.
- the cover or lid used to close a container or pen: 
    a screw-on top
    a bottle top
    a pen top
- the most important position in a group or organization: 
    At 40, he was at the top of his profession.
    Life at the top is stressful.
- a 
spinning top 
- a piece of jewellery, usually one of a pair, worn in a hole in the ear or fastened to the ear by a clip; an earring
- the leaves of a vegetable plant grown mainly for its roots: 
    We fed the rabbit some beetroot tops.
    If you put carrot tops in water they start to grow.
- at the highest part of something: 
    There's a dirty mark on the top left-hand corner of the picture.
    The offices are on the top floor of the building.
    He was standing on the top rung of a ladder.
    The ball curled into the top corner of the net.
- in the part nearest to the highest part; in the upper part: 
    The top few steps were damaged and broken.
- (in the position of being) most important or successful; best: 
    So what would be your top choice of a place to go on holiday?
    As a chess player he's among the top ten percent in the country.
- Top people, organizations, or activities are the most important or successful ones: 
    top athletes/executives
    top jobs
    top schools
- as fast as possible: 
    The train thundered through the station at top speed.
- to be the student with the best results: 
    She came top (of the class) in English.
    Sam was top at/in Science.
- feeling or doing things as well as possible: 
    Paul's back on top form after his illness.
- excellent: 
    "How was your party?" "Top, mate."
    "You coming, then? " "Yeah, top!"
- to be on the upper surface of something, especially as a decoration: 
    The dessert was topped off with whipped cream and pieces of fruit.
- to be the most important, most successful, etc.: 
    The song topped the charts (= sold the largest number of recordings) for five weeks.
    She topped the bill (= was the most important act in the show).
- to do, pay, etc. more or better than anyone else: 
    "They've offered me £1,000." "I'm afraid we can't top that."
    She topped my suggestion with an even better one of her own.
- to kill yourself
- used with many different words to mean "best": 
    a top-class athlete
    top-ranking officers
idioms:
 at the top of your voice
 be at the top of your game
 be on top of sth
 from top to bottom
 from top to toe
 get on top of someone
 off the top of your head
 on top of sth
 on top of the world
 over the top
 top and tail
 to top it all
phrasal verbs:
 top sth off
 top sth up
 top sb up

expect /ɪkˈspekt/
- to think or believe something will happen, or someone will arrive: 
    We are expecting a lot of applicants for the job.
    I expect (that) you'll find it somewhere in your bedroom.
    I expect (that) he'd have left anyway.
    He didn't expect to see me.
    The financial performance of the business is fully expected (= almost certain) to improve.
    We were half expecting you not to come back.
- normal and what usually happens: 
    All parents of small children get tired. It's to be expected.
- to think that someone should behave in a particular way or do a particular thing: 
    I expect punctuality from my students.
    Borrowers are expected to (= should) return books on time.
- to be pregnant: 
    She shouldn't be lifting those boxes if she's expecting.
    Kate and Dom are expecting a baby.

rather /ˈrɑː.ðər/
- quite; to a slight degree: 
    It's rather cold today, isn't it?
    That's rather a difficult book - here's an easier one for you.
    The train was rather too crowded for a comfortable journey.
    She answered the phone rather sleepily.
    I rather doubt I'll be able to come to your party.
- more accurately; more exactly: 
    She'll fly to California on Thursday, or rather, she will if she has to.
    He's my sister's friend really, rather than mine.
- used to express an opposite opinion: 
    The ending of the war is not a cause for celebration, but rather for regret that it ever happened.
    No, I'm not tired. Rather the opposite in fact.
- instead of; used especially when you prefer one thing to another: 
    I think I'd like to stay at home this evening rather than go out.
- used to show that you prefer to have or do one thing more than another: 
    I'd rather have a beer.
    Which would you rather do - go swimming or play tennis?
    Wouldn't you rather finish it tomorrow?
    He'd rather die than (= he certainly does not want to) let me think he needed help.
- very; to a large degree: 
    Actually, I did rather well in my exams.
    I've got rather a lot of work to do at the moment.
- certainly; yes: 
    "Do you want to come out for dinner with us this evening?" "Rather!"
idioms:
 rather you than me

involve /ɪnˈvɒlv/
- If an activity, situation, etc. involves something, that thing is a part of the activity, etc.: 
    Research involving the use of biological warfare agents will be used for defensive purposes.
    The operation involves putting a small tube into your heart.
- If a situation involves someone or something, he, she, or it is affected by it: 
    The second accident involved two cars and a lorry.
- to include someone in something, or to make them take part in or feel part of it: 
    I prefer teaching methods that actively involve students in learning.
    She's been involved with animal rights for many years.
    It would be difficult not to involve the child's father in the arrangements.

swear /sweər/
swear | swore | sworn
- to use words that are rude or offensive as a way of emphasizing what you mean or as a way of insulting someone or something: 
    It was a real shock, the first time I heard my mother swear.
    When the cab driver started to swear at him, he walked away.
- to promise or say firmly that you are telling the truth or that you will do something or behave in a particular way: 
    I don't know anything about what happened, I swear (it).
    You might find it difficult to believe, but I swear (that) the guy just came up to me and gave me the money.
    She swore blind (= promised definitely) (that) she didn't know what had happened to the money.
    New gang members must swear to obey the gang leaders at all times.
    In some countries, witnesses in court have to swear on the Bible.
    I swore an oath to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.
    A few of us knew what was going to happen, but we were sworn to secrecy (= we were made to promise to keep it a secret).
    I think his birthday is on the 5th, but I wouldn't/couldn't swear to it (= I am not completely certain about it).
phrasal verbs:
 swear by sth
 swear sb in
 swear off sth

piece /piːs/
- a part of something: 
    a piece of cloth torn from her coat
    He cut the cake into six pieces.
    This jigsaw puzzle has two pieces missing.
    The vase lay on the floor in pieces (= broken into small parts).
    She tried to break/tear a small piece off the edge.
    The building was taken apart and reassembled piece by piece (= one part after another).
- as a single thing and not divided into smaller pieces: 
    We want to sell the business in one piece.
- to break apart into smaller parts: 
    The glass must have been cracked - it just fell to pieces in my hand.
    His clothes were dirty and falling to pieces.
- a single object of a particular type: 
    a piece of furniture/clothing/equipment
    a piece of paper (= a whole sheet)
    a piece of china (= an object made of china)
    a piece of information/advice
- an item of clothing, especially one that is expensive, fashionable, or individually made : 
    Each piece is quite unique, owing to the fact that all her creations are hand-knitted.
- something that has been created by an artist, musician, or writer: 
    an orchestral/piano/instrumental piece
    a skilful piece of work/research
    Did you read that piece (= article) in the newspaper?
- a single thing that forms part of a set: 
    a chess piece
- a coin with a stated value: 
    Could you swap me two quarters for a 50 cent piece?
- a gun: 
    an artillery piece
    He was carrying a piece when he was arrested.
- a sandwich: 
    a ham piece
- with the number of pieces mentioned: 
    a five-piece band (= with five players)
idioms:
 come to pieces
 give sb a piece of your mind
 go/fall to pieces
 (all) in one piece
 pick/pull sb/sth to pieces
 a piece of ass
 a piece of cake
 a piece of the pie
 a piece of work
 take sth to pieces

busy /ˈbɪz.i/
- If you are busy, you are working hard, or giving your attention to a particular thing: 
    Mum was busy in the kitchen.
    The kids are busy with their homework.
    She's busy writing out the wedding invitations.
    I've got plenty of jobs to keep you busy.
    He was too busy talking to notice us come in.
- A busy place is full of activity or people: 
    a busy restaurant
    Their house is near a very busy road.
- In a busy period, you have a lot of things to do: 
    I have a busy week ahead of me.
    You've had a busy day.
- If a phone line is busy, someone is using it: 
    I tried calling you but the line was busy.
- having too much decoration or too many colours: 
    The jacket was a bit too busy for my tastes - I'd prefer something plainer.
- to make the time pass by doing something: 
    I busied myself with tidying up my desk.

law /lɔː/
- a rule, usually made by a government, that is used to order the way in which a society behaves: 
    There are laws against drinking in the street.
    The laws governing the possession of firearms are being reviewed.
    They led the fight to impose laws on smoking.
    Many doctors backed plans for a law banning/to ban all tobacco advertising.
- the system of rules of a particular country, group, or area of activity: 
    What does the law say about having alcohol in the blood while driving?
    Of course robbery is against the law!
    The judge ruled that the directors had knowingly broken the law.
    You can't take that course of action and remain within the law.
    They have to provide a contract by law.
    It was a detailed study of international human rights law.
- the area of knowledge or work that involves studying or working with the law : 
    She's going to study law at university.
    a law firm in New York
- the police: 
    The law was/were out in force at the demonstration.
- When someone goes to law about something, they ask a court to make a legal judgment about it.
- a general rule that states what always happens when the same conditions exist: 
    Newton's laws of motion
    the laws of nature/physics
    The first law of (= the most important principle in) politics is - if you're going to lie, don't get found out!
idioms:
 be a law unto yourself
 the law of averages
 the law of the jungle
 take the law into your own hands
 there's one law for the rich and another for the poor

black /blæk/
- having the darkest colour there is, like the colour of coal or of a very dark night: 
    black shoes
- relating or belonging to people with black or dark brown skin, especially people who live in Africa or whose family originally came from Africa: 
    black culture
    Black Americans
- without any milk or cream added: 
    a cup of strong black coffee
    I like my tea black, with sugar.
- without hope: 
    The future looked black.
- bad or evil: 
    a black-hearted villain
- the colour of coal or of the sky on a very dark night: 
    She often dresses in black (= in black clothes).
- Black and white photography has no colours except black, white, and grey: 
    The old newsreels were filmed in black and white.
    a black and white photo
- a black person
- to put a black substance on something or to make something black: 
    The soldiers used to black their faces.
- If a trade union or other organization blacks goods or people, it refuses to handle or work with them.
idioms:
 black and blue
 not be as black as you are painted
 paint a black picture of sth/sb
 be (down) in black and white
 be in the black
 black-and-white
 brown, green, etc. is the new black
 see things in black and white
phrasal verbs:
 black sth out
 black out
 black (sth) up

movie /ˈmuː.vi/
- a film shown in a cinema or on television and often telling a story: 
    My favourite movie is "Casablanca".
- a cinema or group of cinemas: 
    What's on/showing at the movies this week?
    Do you want to go to the movies tonight?
- the business of making films: 
    She has worked in the movies all her life. 

catch /kætʃ/
catch | caught | caught
- to take hold of something, especially something that is moving through the air: 
    I managed to catch the glass before it hit the ground.
    We saw the eagle swoop from the sky to catch its prey.
    Our dog ran past me and out of the house before I could catch it.
    He caught hold of my arm.
    We placed saucepans on the floor to catch (= collect) the drops of water coming through the roof.
    The batsman was caught (out) (= someone in the other team caught the ball when he hit it).
- to find and stop a person or animal that is trying to escape: 
    Great pressure was put on the police to catch the terrorists as soon as possible.
    Two armed men were caught trying to cross the frontier at night.
    They were happy because they had caught a lot of fish that day.
    I can see you're busy right now, so I'll catch you (= speak to you) later.
- to discover, see, or realize something, especially someone doing something wrong: 
    He caught her reading his old love letters.
    If the virus is caught (= discovered) in time, most patients can be successfully treated.
    I caught sight of/caught a glimpse of (= saw for a moment) a red coat in the crowd.
- to make someone notice something and feel interested: 
    A ship out at sea caught his attention.
    Her pictures caught my imagination.
- to not have something, especially when it is needed: 
    He doesn't like to be caught without any biscuits in the house.
- said to mean that you will certainly not see someone doing a particular thing or in a particular place: 
    You won't catch me at work after four o'clock.
    You won't catch Carla eating in a cheap restaurant, oh no.
- to travel or be able to travel on an aircraft, train, bus, etc.: 
    He always catches the 10.30 a.m. train to work.
    She was worried that she'd arrive too late to catch the last bus home.
- to get an illness, especially one caused by bacteria or a virus: 
    He caught a cold on holiday.
    A lot of children in the school caught measles last term.
- to stick somewhere, or to make something stick somewhere: 
    The sleeve of my jacket (got) caught on the door handle and ripped.
    Her hair got caught (up) in her hairdryer.
- to manage to be in time to see or do something: 
    I went home early to catch the beginning of the programme.
    You'll have to run if you want to catch the post (= send a letter before the post has been collected).
- to manage to hear something: 
    I couldn't catch what the announcer said, with all the other noise going on.
- to hit something, especially without intending to: 
    His head caught the edge of the table as he fell.
    Medical teams were caught in the crossfire of the opposing armies.
- to become involved in something, often without wanting to: 
    They were having an argument and somehow I got caught up in it.
- to stop breathing for a moment, or to begin to breathe correctly again after running or other exercise: 
    I had to sit down and catch my breath.
- If you have caught the sun, the sun has made your skin a slightly darker brown or red colour: 
    You've caught the sun on the back of your neck.
- If something catches the light, a light shines on it and makes it look shiny.
- to start burning: 
    For reasons which are not yet known, the factory caught fire late yesterday evening.
- to begin to burn: 
    This wood's too wet, the fire won't catch.
- a hidden problem or disadvantage: 
    Free food? It sounds too good to be true. What's the catch?
- an amount of fish caught: 
    The fishermen were disappointed with their catch that day.
- a person who is considered to be very suitable for a relationship: 
    Her new boyfriend's not much of a catch really, is he?
- a small device on a door, window, bag, etc. that keeps it fastened
- a feeling of stiffness in part of your body: 
    She would complain of catch in the joints during winter.
idioms:
 catch sb's eye
 catch sb napping
 catch sb red-handed
 catch sb with their pants/trousers down
phrasal verbs:
 catch on
 catch sb out
 catch (sb) up
 catch up
 catch sb up on sth
 catch up with sb

country /ˈkʌn.tri/
- an area of land that has its own government, army, etc.: 
    What is the largest country in Europe?
    Sri Lanka is my native country, but I've been living in Belgium for the past five years.
    The climate is cooler in the east of the country.
- all the people who live in a country: 
    The whole country celebrated the signing of the peace treaty.
- land that is not in towns, cities, or industrial areas and is either used for farming or left in its natural condition: 
    He lives out in the country somewhere.
    Would you prefer to live in the country instead of a town?
    Country life isn't always as peaceful as city-dwellers think.
    It's often quicker to travel across country and avoid the major roads completely.
- an area of land considered in relation to a particular feature: 
    Stratford-upon-Avon is the capital of Shakespeare country.
    The empty roads make this area good cycling country.
- → 
country and western 
idioms:
 across country
 go to the country

less /les/
- a smaller amount (of), or to a smaller degree: 
    We must try to spend less money.
    Exercise more and eat less.
    I eat less chocolate and fewer biscuits than I used to.
    Getting out of bed in summer is less difficult than in winter.
- used to say that behaviour does not have the good or attractive characteristic that is stated: 
    I think he was less than honest with me.
- If something happens less and less, it becomes gradually smaller in amount or happens less often: 
    He's less and less able to look after himself.
- → 
minus : 
    The total is 30 dollars, less the five dollars deposit that you paid.
- used to form adjectives meaning "without (the thing mentioned)": 
    meaningless
    friendless
idioms:
 much/still less
 no less
 no less than

perhaps /pəˈhæps/
- used to show that something is possible or that you are not certain about something: 
    He hasn't written to me recently - perhaps he's lost my address.
    Perhaps the most important question has not been asked.
    We plan to travel to Europe - to Spain or Italy perhaps.
- used to show that a number or amount is approximate: 
    There were perhaps 500 people at the meeting.
- used when making polite requests or statements of opinion: 
    "I never remember people's birthdays." "Well, perhaps you should."

step /step/
step | -pp-
- to move by lifting your foot and putting it down in a different place, or to put your foot on or in something: 
    She stepped backwards and fell over a chair.
    They stepped out onto the balcony.
    Be careful not to step in the mud.
    Ow, you stepped on my foot!
    Sorry but Mr Taylor has just stepped (= gone) out for a few minutes, but I'll tell him you called.
    Step this way please, sir.
- a stage in a process: 
    What's the next step in the process?
    We must stay one step ahead of our competitors.
    Most people believe that the decision to cut interest rates was a step in the right direction.
    Let's take things a step/one step at a time (= slowly).
    Following the success of our products in Europe, our logical next step is to move into the American market.
- an action in a series of actions taken for a particular purpose: 
    The country is taking its first tentative steps towards democracy.
    We need to take drastic steps to reduce pollution.
    The president took the unusual step of altering his prepared speech in order to condemn the terrorist attack.
- dealing with one thing and then another thing in a fixed order: 
    step-by-step instructions
    Don't worry - I'll go through the procedure with you step by step.
- one of the surfaces that you walk on when you go up or down stairs: 
    a flight of steps
    We had to climb some steps to reach the front door.
    I asked them to leave the parcel on the (front) step (= outside the door to the house).
    Mind the step as you leave the train.
    It's difficult for people in wheelchairs to negotiate (= move up and down) steps.
    One of the steps on the ladder is broken.
- another word for 
stepladder : 
    kitchen steps
    library steps
- the act of lifting one foot and putting it down on a different part of the ground, such as when you walk or run: 
    Sophie took her first steps when she was eleven months old.
    He rose to his feet and took a couple of steps towards her.
    With every step, her feet hurt her more and more.
    I retraced my steps, looking for my lost keys.
- the distance you cover when you take a step: 
    I'd only gone a few steps when I realized I'd forgotten to lock the door.
- the way you move your feet when you are walking or running, which can sometimes show how you are feeling: 
    She walked out of the office with a spring in her step (= in a way that showed she was happy).
    The driver told us to mind/watch our step (= walk carefully) as we got off the bus.
- a particular movement that you make with your feet when you dance: 
    She's teaching me some basic dance steps.
- When people walk in step, they lift their feet off the ground and put them down again at the same time: 
    The soldiers marched in step.
- used to say that opinions, ideas, or ways of living that are the same as those of other people: 
    Television companies need to keep in step with public opinion.
- When someone is out of step, they do not lift the same foot and put it down again at the same time as other people: 
    I'm no good at dancing - I always get completely out of step.
- used to say that opinions, ideas, or ways of living that are different from those of other people: 
    The Republicans are out of step with the country, Williams said.
    He thinks that everyone is out of step except him.
- the difference in pitch between two notes that are next to each other in the western musical scale
- related to someone through a second marriage : 
    stepfather
    stepmother
    stepchildren
idioms:
 step back (in time)
 step into the breach
 step on it
 step out of line
 step up to the plate
 a few/couple of steps
 watch your step
 one step forward, two steps back
 a step backwards
 a step forward
phrasal verbs:
 step aside
 step aside/down
 step back
 step sth down
 step forward
 step in
 step into sth
 step on sb
 step out on sb
 step up
 step sth up

fall /fɔːl/
fall | fell | fallen
- to suddenly go down onto the ground or towards the ground without intending to or by accident: 
    The path's very steep, so be careful you don't fall.
    He fell badly and broke his leg.
    Athletes have to learn how to fall without hurting themselves.
    The horse fell at the first fence.
    I fell down the stairs and injured my back.
    The object appeared to have fallen from a great height.
    The water's deep here, so don't fall in!
    She slipped and fell on the ice.
    He fell into the river and had to be rescued.
    I fell off my bike and scraped my knee.
    He was leaning out of the window and almost fell out.
    She fell under a bus and was killed instantly.
    She fell five metres to the bottom of the ravine.
    He fell to his death climbing the Matterhorn.
- to fall and land with your face down: 
    Poor Kathy fell flat on her face in the mud.
- to become lower in size, amount, or strength: 
    Demand for new cars has fallen due to the recession.
    The standard of his work has fallen during the year.
    Salaries in the public sector are expected to fall by 15 percent this year.
    The temperature could fall below zero overnight.
    Average temperatures fell by ten degrees.
    The pound has fallen to its lowest-ever level against the dollar.
    When the teacher walked in, the children's voices fell to a whisper (= they became very quiet).
    Share prices fell sharply this week.
- to come down onto the ground or from a high position to a lower position: 
    The snow had been falling steadily all day.
    It was October and the leaves had started to fall.
    She fell into bed, completely exhausted.
    A bomb fell on the church and destroyed it.
    A huge meteor fell to Earth in the middle of the desert.
    He begged for mercy as the blows fell on him (= as he was being hit).
- to go down on your knees to show respect: 
    The people all fell to their knees and began to pray.
- When the curtain falls in the theatre, it comes down because the play or performance has ended: 
    The audience was still laughing as the curtain fell.
- to belong to a particular group, subject, or area: 
    The material falls into three categories.
    Matters of discipline fall outside my area of responsibility.
- to change to a particular condition from a different one: 
    He always falls asleep after drinking red wine.
    She suddenly fell ill.
    The book fell open (= opened by chance) at a picture of Venice.
    The president has fallen strangely silent on the issue of gun control.
    Your rent falls due (= must be paid) on the first of the month.
    Silence fell on the group of men (= they became silent) as they received the news.
    She fell under the influence of (= began to be influenced by) an older student.
- to be beaten or defeated: 
    The president fell from power during the military coup.
    The government finally fell after losing the support of the centre parties.
- If a place falls in a war or an election, an enemy army or a different political party gets control of it: 
    Rome fell to the Vandals in AD 455.
    The constituency fell to Labour at the last election, after ten years of Conservative rule.
- If soldiers fall while fighting, they are killed: 
    Many brave men fell in the fight to save the city.
    During the war, he saw many of his comrades fall in battle.
- In cricket, when a wicket falls, the turn of the player who is hitting the ball ends: 
    Ten wickets fell in 22 overs.
- to come at a particular time or happen in a particular place: 
    Easter falls late this year.
    My birthday will fall on a Friday this year.
    Night/Darkness had fallen by the time we got back to the camp.
    In the word "table", the accent falls on the first syllable.
    The Treasury has still not decided where the cuts will fall.
- to hang down loosely: 
    The boy's hair fell around his shoulders in golden curls.
    The veil fell almost to her waist.
- If your face falls, you suddenly look unhappy or disappointed, and if your spirits fall, you suddenly feel unhappy or disappointed: 
    His spirits fell when he saw the distance he still had to go.
    As she read her exam results, her face fell.
- the fact of the size, amount, or strength of something getting lower: 
    a fall in the price of petrol/the unemployment rate
    We could hear the rise and fall of voices in the other room.
    There was a fall in support for the party at the last election.
- the season after summer and before winter, when fruits and crops become ready to eat and the leaves fall off the trees: 
    I'm starting college in the fall.
    Next fall we'll be back in New York.
    a fall day/morning
    fall colours/foliage
- the act of falling down to the ground, usually without intending to or by accident: 
    He had/took a nasty fall and hurt his back.
    the fall of the Berlin Wall (= when the Berlin Wall was destroyed)
- an amount of something that moves down onto the ground or from a higher position to a lower position: 
    a heavy fall of snow
- often used in place names to mean a very wide waterfall, often made of many separate waterfalls: 
    Niagara Falls
- the fact of being defeated or losing your power: 
    the fall of Rome
    The army took control of the city after the president's fall from power.
idioms:
 fall between two stools
 fall by the wayside
 fall flat
 fall foul of sth
 fall foul of sb
 fall in line
 fall in love
 fall into sb's arms
 fall into place
 fall into the wrong hands
 fall into the/sb's trap
 fall prey/victim to sth/sb
 fall short
 nearly/almost fall off your chair
 fall on deaf ears
 fall on hard times
 take a/the fall for sb
 fall from grace
phrasal verbs:
 fall about
 fall apart
 fall away
 fall back
 fall back on sth
 fall behind
 fall down
 fall down on sth
 fall for sb
 fall for sth
 fall from sth
 fall in
 fall in with sb
 fall in with sth
 fall into sth
 fall off
 fall on/upon sb
 fall on/upon sth
 fall on sb
 fall out
 fall over
 fall over sth/sb
 fall through
 fall to sb
 fall to

dog /dɒɡ/
- a common animal with four legs, especially kept by people as a pet or to hunt or guard things: 
    my pet dog
    wild dogs
    dog food
    We could hear dogs barking in the distance.
- a man who is unpleasant or not to be trusted: 
    He tried to steal my money, the dirty dog.
- a woman who is not attractive
- to follow someone closely and continuously: 
    Reporters dogged him for answers.
- to cause difficulties: 
    Technical problems dogged our trip from the outset.
idioms:
 a dog in the manger
 a dog's breakfast
 the dog's bollocks
 a dog's life
 done up/dressed up like a dog's dinner
 every dog has its day
 give a dog a bad name
 go to the dogs
 let sleeping dogs lie
 put on the dog
 why keep a dog and bark yourself?
 you can't teach an old dog new tricks

win /wɪn/
win | present participle winning | past tense and past participle won
- to achieve first position and/or get a prize in a competition, election, fight, etc.: 
    Which year was it that Italy won the World Cup?
    He won first prize/a bottle of wine in the raffle.
    Who's winning?
    This is the third medal she's won this season.
    Who won the men's finals at the Open?
    They won the war, although it cost them millions of lives.
    If this government win the next election, I'm leaving the country.
    Everyone likes winning an argument.
    It was his goal that won us the match/won the match for us.
    Her firm has just won (= beaten other companies to get) a cleaning contract worth £3 million.
- to receive something positive, such as approval, loyalty, or love because you have earned it: 
    Her plans have won the support of many local people.
    This is Jamie, the four-year old who won the hearts of the nation (= made everyone love him and/or feel sympathy for him).
    She would do anything to win his love.
    Winning back his trust was the hardest part.
- an occasion when someone wins a game or competition: 
    It was the team's sixth consecutive win this season.
    Everyone was predicting a Republican win at the last election and look what happened.
idioms:
 sb can't win
 win big
 win hands down
 win the day
 you can't win 'em all
 you win!
phrasal verbs:
 win sb over
 win out
 win sb round
 win through

personal /ˈpɜː.sən.əl/
- relating or belonging to a single or particular person rather than to a group or an organization: 
    My personal opinion/view is that the students should be doing more work outside the classroom.
    Her uncle takes a personal interest in her progress.
    She has her own personal secretary/bodyguard/fitness instructor.
    Passengers are reminded to take all their personal belongings with them when they leave the plane.
- A personal action is one that is done by someone directly rather than getting another person to do it: 
    The mayor made a personal appearance at the hospital.
    I will give the matter my personal attention.
- private or relating to someone's private life: 
    The letter was marked "Personal. Strictly confidential."
    Do you mind if I ask you a personal question?
    His resignation was apparently for personal rather than professional reasons.
    For such a famous, wealthy man, his personal life was surprisingly simple and ordinary.
- relating to your body or appearance: 
    She is obsessed with personal hygiene.
- an intentionally offensive remark about someone's character or appearance: 
    Did you have to make such a personal remark about her new haircut?
- to start being rude to someone about their character or appearance: 
    As long as the criticism is honestly given and doesn't get personal, I can handle it.
- the part of a newspaper or magazine that contains short advertisements and private messages

admit /ədˈmɪt/
admit | -tt-
- to agree that something is true, especially unwillingly: 
    He admitted his guilt/mistake.
    She admitted (that) she had made a mistake.
    She admitted making a mistake.
    At first he denied stealing the money but he later admitted (to) it.
    I wasn't entirely honest with him, I admit.
    The new law was generally admitted to be difficult to enforce.
- to accept that you have failed and give up: 
    After several attempts to untie the knot, I admitted defeat and cut through it with a knife.
- to allow someone to enter a place: 
    Each ticket admits one member and one guest.
    Men will not be admitted to the restaurant without a tie.
    A gap between the curtains admitted the faint glimmer of a street lamp.
- to allow a person or country to join an organization: 
    Spain was admitted to the European Community in 1986.
- to allow someone to enter a hospital because they need medical care: 
    She was admitted to hospital suffering from shock.
    She was admitted to the hospital suffering from shock.
phrasal verbs:
 admit of sth

problem /ˈprɒb.ləm/
- a situation, person, or thing that needs attention and needs to be dealt with or solved: 
    financial/health problems
    Our main problem is lack of cash.
    I'm having problems with my computer.
    No one has solved the problem of what to do with radioactive waste.
    The very high rate of inflation poses/presents (= is) a serious problem for the government.
    Who is going to tackle (= deal with) the problem of poverty in the inner cities?
    Did you have any problems (= difficulties) getting here?
    I'd love to come - the only problem is I've got friends staying that night.
- a question in mathematics that needs an answer: 
    We were given ten problems to solve.
- a child, etc. whose behaviour is bad
idioms:
 have a problem with sth/sb
 no problem

murder /ˈmɜː.dər/
- the crime of intentionally killing a person: 
    Two sisters have been charged with (= officially accused of) murder.
    There were three murders in the town last year.
    The three were convicted of (= proved guilty of) murder.
    a murder weapon (= a weapon used to commit a murder)
- a group of crows (= large black birds): 
    He loves collective nouns such as "a bed of oysters, a host of angels, a flood of tears, a murder of crows". 
- to commit the crime of intentionally killing a person: 
    Her husband was murdered by gunmen as she watched.
    In the last year, terrorists have murdered several local journalists.
- If you say you will or could murder someone, you mean you are very angry with them: 
    If he's late again, I'll murder him!
- to do or perform something very badly, so that you spoil it completely: 
    karaoke singers who murder pop classics
idioms:
 be murder
 be murder on sth
 could murder sth

strong /strɒŋ/
- powerful; having or using great force or control: 
    She must be very strong to carry such a weight on her back.
    It is surely the duty of the stronger members in a society to help those who are weak.
    My grandmother had a strong influence/effect on my early childhood.
    Strong winds are forecast in the area for the next few days.
    It's surprising what strong memories a photograph can produce.
    Get Carl to lift it - he's as strong as an ox (= very strong).
- effective; of a good quality or level and likely to be successful: 
    We will need strong policies if our economic problems are to be solved.
    I can give you stronger pain-killing drugs if these aren't strong enough.
    Strong trading links exist between us and many South American countries.
- skilled or good at doing something: 
    Without a doubt, she's the strongest candidate we've interviewed for the job.
    As a guitarist, he's strong on (= good at) technique but lacks feeling in some pieces.
- difficult to argue with; firm and determined: 
    She has strong opinions about religion.
    He has a strong personality, but don't let him bully you.
    Most of the group have strong views on the subject of divorce.
- If a taste, smell, etc. is strong, it is very noticeable or powerful: 
    A strong light was shining straight in my eyes.
    There's a really strong smell of bleach in the corridor.
    This coffee is too strong for me.
    The room was decorated in very strong colours.
    What a strong likeness there is between the brothers!
- difficult to break, destroy, or make sick, or able to support a heavy weight or force: 
    a strong box/chair
    The window is made from very strong glass - it won't shatter.
    It's a serious disease, but he's very strong - I think he'll pull through.
- very likely to happen: 
    There's a strong possibility/likelihood of finding the child within the next few hours.
    The treatment's chances of success are stronger if it is started as soon as the disease is diagnosed.
- having the stated number of people, members, etc.: 
    The crowd had grown to be several hundred strong.
- A strong acid, alkali, or chemical base produces many ions (= atoms with an electrical charge) when it is dissolved in water.
- to behave towards another person in a way that is too severe, or that shows a strong sexual interest that the other person does not want: 
    I think you came on a bit strong - it wasn't her fault.
    He's always coming on strong to me - I wish he'd stop.
- to make an extra effort in order to be successful or to have control in a situation: 
    He came on strong in the early rounds to annihilate the competition.
idioms:
 be going strong
 strong nerves

evil /ˈiː.vəl/
- morally bad, cruel, or very unpleasant: 
    an evil dictator
    These people are just evil.
- If the weather or a smell is evil, it is very unpleasant.
- something that is very bad and harmful: 
    Each new leader would blame his predecessor for all the evils of the past.
    Drug addiction is one of today's great social evils.
    For the sake of long-term peace, the military option is the lesser evil/the lesser of two evils (= the less unpleasant of two bad choices).
    the battle between good and evil
idioms:
 the evil eye

feel /fiːl/
feel | felt | felt
- to experience something physical or emotional: 
    "How are you feeling?" "Not too bad, but I've still got a slight headache."
    How would you feel about moving to a different city?
    He's still feeling a little weak after his operation.
    My eyes feel really sore.
    I never feel safe when Richard is driving.
    Never in her life had she felt so happy.
    My suitcase began to feel really heavy after a while.
    I felt like (= thought that I was) a complete idiot/such a fool.
    She felt his hot breath on her neck.
    I could feel the sweat trickling down my back.
    By midday, we were really feeling (= suffering from) the heat.
- to have a wish for something, or to want to do something, at a particular moment: 
    I feel like (going for) a swim.
    I feel like (having) a nice cool glass of lemonade.
    "Are you coming to aerobics?" "No, I don't feel like it today."
- to want to do something that you do not do: 
    He was so rude I felt like slapping his face.
- to get cold quicker and more often than most people: 
    As you get older, you tend to feel the cold more.
- to not feel any pain: 
    "Did it hurt?" "Not at all - I didn't feel a thing."
- to have a particular opinion about or attitude towards something: 
    I feel (that) I should be doing more to help her.
    He had always felt himself (to be) inferior to his brothers.
    Do you feel very strongly (= have strong opinions) about this?
    I feel certain I'm right.
- to touch something in order to discover something about it: 
    Just feel how cold my hands are!
    He gently felt the softness of the baby's cheek.
    I was feeling (around) (= searching with my hand) in my bag for the keys.
- the way that something feels: 
    She loved the feel of silk against her skin.
- the action of touching something: 
    Is that shirt silk? Ooh, let me have a feel!
- the character of a place or situation: 
    I like the decoration - it's got a Spanish feel to it.
    There was a feel of mystery about the place.
    We were there for such a short time, we didn't really get the feel of (= get to know) the place.
- a natural understanding or ability, especially in a subject or activity: 
    She has a real feel for language.
    I tried learning the piano, but I never had much of a feel for it.
- to learn how to do something, usually a new activity: 
    Once you get the feel of it, using a mouse is easy.
idioms:
 feel your age
 feel free
 feel it in your bones
 feel the pinch
 feel your way
phrasal verbs:
 feel for sb
 feel sb/sth out
 feel sb up

honest /ˈɒn.ɪst/
- telling the truth or able to be trusted and not likely to steal, cheat, or lie: 
    She's completely honest.
    I'd like you to give me an honest answer/your honest opinion.
    He had an honest face (= he looked like he could be trusted).
    To be honest (with you), I don't think it will be possible.
idioms:
 honest (to God/goodness)
 make an honest living
 make an honest woman (out) of sb

eye /aɪ/
- one of the two organs in your face that are used for seeing: 
    He has no sight in his left eye.
    She's got beautiful green eyes.
    He closed his eyes and went to sleep.
- a dark spot on a potato or similar plant part, from which a new stem and leaves will grow
- the hole in a needle through which you put the thread
- to look at someone or something with interest: 
    I could see her eyeing my lunch.
    She eyed me warily.
idioms:
 all eyes are on sb/sth
 an eye for an eye (and a tooth for a tooth)
 as far as the eye can/could see
 be all eyes
 be more to sth than meets the eye
 be one in the eye for sb
 be up to your eyes in sth
 before your very eyes
 clap/lay/set eyes on sb/sth
 sb's eyes are bigger than their belly/stomach
 have an eye for sth
 have your eye on sth
 have an eye to/for the main chance
 have eyes in the back of your head
 in sb's eyes
 keep your eye in
 keep your/an eye on sth/sb
 keep your eye on the ball
 keep your/an eye out for sb/sth
 keep your eyes open for sb/sth
 keep your eyes peeled/skinned
 make eyes at sb
 not take your eyes off sb/sth
 only have eyes for sb
 roll your eyes
 take your eye off the ball
 to my eye
 with your eyes open
 with your eyes closed/shut
phrasal verbs:
 eye sb up
 eye sth up

broke /brəʊk/
- past simple of break
- without money: 
    I can't afford to go on holiday this year - I'm (flat) broke.
    Many small businesses went broke (= lost all their money) during the recession.
idioms:
 go for broke

miss /mɪs/
- to fail to do or experience something, often something planned or expected, or to avoid doing or experiencing something: 
    I missed the start of the class because my bus was late.
    Often I miss (= do not eat) breakfast and have an early lunch instead.
    You should leave early if you want to miss the rush hour.
    I only just missed being run over by a bus this morning.
- to arrive too late to get on a bus, train, or aircraft: 
    You'll miss your flight if you don't hurry up.
- to not go to something: 
    Students who miss a lot of school can find it hard to catch up.
    I'm trying to find an excuse for missing the office party.
- to not see or hear something or someone: 
    I missed the beginning of the show.
    Her latest movie is too good to miss (= it certainly should be seen).
    I was sorry I missed you at Pat's party - I must have arrived after you left.
- to not notice someone or something: 
    You don't miss much, do you? Nobody else noticed that mistake.
    My office is first on the right with a bright red door. You can't miss it (= it is very easy to find).
- to feel sad that a person or thing is not present: 
    I really missed her when she went away.
    She will be sadly missed by all who knew her.
    I still miss my old car.
    What did you miss most about home when you were living in France?
    I haven't missed smoking like I expected to.
- to fail to hit something, or to avoid hitting something: 
    The bullet missed his heart by a couple of centimetres.
    I swerved to avoid the other car and only just missed a tree.
    He threw a book at me, but he/it missed.
- to notice that something is lost or absent: 
    He didn't miss his wallet until the waiter brought the bill.
- an occasion when something or someone fails to hit something or avoids hitting something: 
    Well done! You scored eight hits and only two misses.
- to avoid or not do something: 
    We usually go to France in the summer, but we've decided to give it a miss this year.
    The restaurant's very good for fish, but I'd give their vegetarian options a miss.
- a girl or young woman, especially one who behaves rudely or shows no respect: 
    You're a cheeky little miss! Apologize at once.
- a title used before the family name or full name of a single woman who has no other title: 
    Dr White will see you now, Miss Carter.
    Miss Helena Lewis
- used as a form of address for a girl or young woman: 
    Excuse me, Miss, you dropped this.
- sometimes used by children to address or refer to teachers who are women: 
    Can I go to the toilet, Miss?
- a title given to a woman who wins a beauty contest, combined with the name of the place that she represents: 
    Miss India/UK
    the Miss World contest
idioms:
 miss a chance/opportunity
 miss the boat
 miss the mark
 miss the point
 not miss a beat
 not miss a trick
 not miss much
phrasal verbs:
 miss sb/sth out
 miss out

tired /taɪəd/
- in need of rest or sleep: 
    I was so tired when I got home from work last night that I had a quick nap.
    My legs are tired.
    She spoke in a tired voice.
- used to describe people, ideas, or subjects that are not interesting because they are very familiar: 
    It's always the same tired old faces at these meetings.
- to be bored with an activity or person: 
    I'm so tired of doing the same job, day after day.
    Don't you get tired of arguing all the time?
    I'm sick and tired of you telling me what to do all the time.
idioms:
 tired and emotional

evening /ˈiːv.nɪŋ/
- the part of the day between the end of the afternoon and night: 
    a chilly evening
    I work in a restaurant and only get one evening off a week.
    Thank you for such an enjoyable evening.
    I always go to see a movie on Friday evenings.
    In the evenings, I like to relax.
    I'm working late this evening.
    What are you doing tomorrow evening?
    It poured down all evening and most of the night as well.
    What time do you usually get home in the evening?
- a friendly way of greeting someone when you meet them in the evening: 
    Evening, Tom! Where are you off to this evening?

human /ˈhjuː.mən/
- being, relating to, or belonging to a person or to people as opposed to animals: 
    The human body is composed of about 60 percent water.
    They found some remains which were thought to be human.
    Victory in the war was achieved at the cost of great human suffering.
    The inspector declared the meat fit for human consumption (= in good enough condition for people to eat).
- having the qualities, faults, and feelings that people have, as opposed to gods, animals, or machines: 
    Of course I make mistakes, I'm only human.
    When he laughs it makes him seem more human.
    It's very human to have regrets about the past.
- a man, woman, or child: 
    The greatest damage being done to our planet today is that being done by humans.

red /red/
red | redder | reddest
- of the colour of fresh blood: 
    red lipstick
    The dress was bright red.
- used to describe hair that is an orange-brown colour
- If you go/turn red, your face becomes red because you are angry or embarrassed: 
    Look, you've embarrassed him - he's gone bright red!
- If your eyes are red, the white part of your eyes and the skin around your eyes is red, because of crying, tiredness, too much alcohol, etc.
- the colour of fresh blood: 
    She uses a lot of reds and pinks in her paintings.
    I've always worn a lot of red.
    She was dressed all in red.
- a person who has socialist or communist political opinions
- relating to socialist or communist political opinions: 
    People are accusing each other of being "Red spies".
    The Red Scare of the 1950s consisted of a panic-stricken fear of communism.
idioms:
 be like a red rag to a bull
 not a red cent
 be in the red

entire /ɪnˈtaɪər/
- whole or complete, with nothing missing: 
    Between them they ate an entire cake.
    He'd spent the entire journey asleep.
    They got an entire set of silver cutlery as a wedding present.

trip /trɪp/
- a journey in which you go somewhere, usually for a short time, and come back again: 
    The trip from York to Newcastle takes about an hour by train.
    We're going on a trip to Norway this summer.
    I thought we might hire a motorboat and take a trip round/around the bay.
    We can't afford another trip abroad this year.
    It's a ten-mile trip from the airport to the hotel.
    She's away on a business trip and won't be back until next week.
    Do you want to go on the school trip to France this year?
    I was thinking we could go on a shopping trip to New York this weekend.
- an occasion when you knock your foot against something and fall or lose your balance, or someone causes you to do this, when you are walking or running: 
    She broke her ankle when she had a nasty trip on the stairs.
- an experience in which someone sees, hears, or feels things that do not exist as a result of taking an illegal drug: 
    If you take this stuff when you're depressed, you'll have a really bad trip.
- a person or experience that is strange or entertaining and exciting: 
    My science teacher is such a trip - he says the most bizarre things. 
- a period of time when you experience a particular feeling strongly: 
    She's been on a real power trip since she became the office manager.
    I suffer from the classic working mother's guilt trip.
- to lose your balance after knocking your foot against something when you are walking or running, or to cause someone to do this: 
    He tripped and fell down, grazing his knee.
    That cable is dangerous. Someone might trip over it.
    He was sent off for deliberately tripping Robson when he was about to score.
- to move with quick, gentle steps: 
    She looked stunning as she tripped down the stairs in her ball gown.
- to move a switch that operates an electrical system, or to cause such a system to start or stop working by moving a switch: 
    A special system prevents the circuitry from being tripped accidentally by a power surge or lightning strike.
- to experience the effects of taking an illegal drug that causes the user to see, hear, or feel things that do not exist: 
    As a student he spent a lot of time tripping out on LSD.
idioms:
 trip off the tongue
phrasal verbs:
 trip (sb) up

club /klʌb/
- an organization of people with a common purpose or interest, who meet regularly and take part in shared activities: 
    I've just joined the local golf/squash/tennis club.
    Visitors must be accompanied by club members.
- a team: 
    The Orioles are an exciting club this year.
    Stockport County Football Club
- a building in which a club meets
- a place that people go to in order to dance and drink in the evening: 
    I went to that new club that's just opened.
- a long, thin stick used in golf to hit the ball: 
    a set of golf clubs
- a heavy stick used as a weapon
- one of the four suits in playing cards, represented by a symbol with three round leaves: 
    the three/King of clubs
- a playing card from the suit of clubs: 
    Now you have to play a club if you have one.
- to beat a person or an animal, usually repeatedly, with a heavy stick or object: 
    He was clubbed over the head.
    The alligators are then clubbed to death.
idioms:
 in the club
phrasal verbs:
 club together

suppose /səˈpəʊz/
- to think that something is likely to be true: 
    Dan didn't answer his phone, so I suppose (that) he's busy.
    He found it a lot more difficult to get a job than he supposed it would be.
    Do you suppose (that) Gillian will marry him?
    It is widely supposed (that) the CEO will be forced to resign.
    We all supposed him to be German, but in fact he was Swiss.
    Her new book is supposed to be (= generally people think it is) very good.
- used to show that you think something is true, although you wish that it were not: 
    I suppose (that) all the tickets will be sold by now.
- used when you are annoyed: 
    I suppose (that) you're going to be late again.
    I suppose (that) you think that's funny. Well, I certainly don't.
- used to show unwillingness to agree: 
    "Can I go out tonight?" "Oh, I suppose so."
    I don't agree with it, but I suppose (that) it's for the best.
- used in making polite requests: 
    I don't suppose (that) you could lend me £5 till tomorrow?
- to expect and need: 
    Investment of this kind supposes (= would not be possible without) an increase in the company's profits this year.
- used at the beginning of a sentence or clause to mean 'what would happen if': 
    Suppose we miss the train - what will we do then?
    We'd love to come and see you on Saturday, supposing (= if) I don't have to work that day.

calm /kɑːm/
- peaceful, quiet, and without worry: 
    He has a very calm manner.
    Now keep calm everyone, the police are on their way.
- without hurried movement or noise: 
    After a night of fighting, the streets are now calm.
- If the weather is calm, there is no wind, or if the sea or a lake is calm, it is still and has no waves.
- to stop someone feeling upset, angry, or excited: 
    He tried to calm the screaming baby by rocking it back and forth.
- to make someone feel less worried about something
- a quiet or peaceful period or situation: 
    It was the calm of the countryside that he loved so much.
- a quiet and relaxed manner
idioms:
 the calm before the storm
phrasal verbs:
 calm (sb) down

imagine /ɪˈmædʒ.ɪn/
- to form or have a mental picture or idea of something: 
    Imagine Robert Redford when he was young - that's what John looks like.
    Imagine (that) you're eating ice cream - try to feel how cold it is.
    Can you imagine how it feels to be blind?
    She imagined herself sitting in her favourite chair back home.
    They hadn't imagined (= expected) (that) it would be so difficult.
    I can't imagine (= I really don't know) what he wants from us.
- to believe that something is probably true: 
    I imagine (that) he's under a lot of pressure at the moment.
    I don't imagine (that) they have much money.
    "Will they change it?" "I imagine so."
- to think that something exists or is true, although in fact it is not real or true: 
    "Did you hear a noise?" "No, you're imagining things/No, you must have imagined it."
    I've never heard her criticize you - I think you imagine it.
- used to express shock or surprise, often at someone else's behaviour: 
    She got married at 16! Imagine that!
    Imagine spending all that money on a coat!
- used to emphasize a statement: 
    You can't imagine what a mess the house was in after the party.

fair /feər/
- treating someone in a way that is right or reasonable, or treating a group of people equally and not allowing personal opinions to influence your judgment: 
    a fair trial
    Why should I have to do all the cleaning? It's not fair!
    It's not fair on Joe (= it is not right) to make him do all the work!
    It's not fair that she's allowed to go and I'm not!
    It's not fair to blame me for everything!
    She's scrupulously fair with all her employees (= she treats them all equally).
    She claims her article was a fair comment on (= a reasonable thing to say about) a matter of public interest.
    He offered to do all the cleaning if I did all the cooking, which seemed like a fair (= reasonable) deal.
- If something is fair, it is reasonable and is what you expect or deserve: 
    I thought it was a fair price that she was offering.
    I'm willing to do my fair (= equal) share of the work.
    All the workers want is a fair wage for the work that they do.
- If a game or competition is fair, it is done according to the rules: 
    It was a fair fight.
- it is the right way to treat someone and what they deserve: 
    I think it's only fair to tell you that we have had over 300 applications for this job.
- it is true to say: 
    I think it's fair to say (that) you've done less of the work than I have.
- considering everything that has an effect on a situation, so that a fair judgment can be made: 
    He's done the job badly but, to be fair, I gave him very little time to do it.
- something you say to show that you understand why someone has done or said something: 
    "I'm just annoyed with him because he's behaved so badly." "Fair enough."
- something that you say when you want someone to behave reasonably or treat you the same as other people: 
    Come on, it's my turn. Fair's fair!
- an opportunity to explain something or give your opinions, without other people trying to influence the situation: 
    He didn't think that he got a fair hearing in court.
- in an honest way and without any doubt: 
    We won the match fair and square.
- If you hit someone fair and square on a particular part of their body, you hit that person hard, exactly on that part: 
    He hit me fair and square on the nose.
- (of skin) pale, or (of hair) pale yellow or gold: 
    She's got fair hair and blue eyes.
    a fair complexion
    My sister has dark hair but my brother's fair (= he has fair hair).
    He's fair-haired.
    All my family are fair-skinned.
- quite large: 
    We've had a fair amount of rain this week.
    We've had a fair number of applicants.
    It's a fair-sized garden.
    We've come a long way, but there's still a fair way (= quite a long distance) to go.
- neither very good nor very bad: 
    Films are rated on a scale of poor, fair, good and excellent.
    I was fair at science but it was never my thing.
- (of an idea, guess, or chance) good, but not excellent: 
    I think I've got a fair idea of (= I understand reasonably well) what you want.
    She's got a fair chance of winning (= there is a reasonable chance that she will win).
- (of weather) pleasant and dry: 
    Fair weather was forecast for the following day.
- (of a woman) beautiful: 
    a fair maiden
- a large public event where goods are bought and sold, usually from tables that have been specially arranged for the event, and where there is often entertainment: 
    I bought a wooden salad bowl at the local craft fair.
- an outside event where you can ride on large machines for pleasure and play games to win prizes
- a large show at which people who work in a particular industry meet, and sell and advertise their products: 
    a book/antiques/toy fair
    a trade fair
- a public event in the countryside where farm animals and farm products are sold: 
    a county/state fair
    a cattle/agricultural fair
- a public event, often held outside, where you can take part in competitions and buy small things and food, often organized to collect money for a particular purpose: 
    the school fair
idioms:
 all's fair in love and war
 by fair means or foul
 a fair crack of the whip
 fair to middling
 it's a fair cop
 with your own fair hand(s)

blame /bleɪm/
- to say or think that someone or something did something wrong or is responsible for something bad happening: 
    Don't blame me (= it is not my fault) if you miss the bus!
    Hugh blames his mother for his lack of confidence.
    Hugh blames his lack of confidence on his mother.
- said in order to tell someone that you understand why they are doing something and that you agree with the reason for doing it: 
    I don't blame him for getting angry - she's being really annoying.
    "I decided to leave." "I don't blame you!"
- to be the reason for something that happens: 
    The hot weather is partly to blame for the water shortage.
- the situation in which people say or think that someone or something did something wrong or is responsible for something bad happening: 
    Health officials put the blame for the disease on (= say that the reason for the disease is) poor housing conditions.
    They tried to pin (= put) the blame for the killing on an innocent army officer.
    We want to find out what happened, not to apportion blame (= to say someone or something was wrong).
- If you take the blame for something, you say that you did it or that it is your fault: 
    If anything goes wrong, I'll take the blame.
idioms:
 a bad workman blames his tools

street /striːt/
- a road in a city or town that has buildings that are usually close together along one or both sides: 
    The streets were strewn with rubbish after the parade.
    a street map
    Our daughter lives just across the street from us.
    Diane's house is in/on Cherry Street.
    Men whistle at us when we're just walking down the street.
    Make sure you look both ways when you cross the street.
    The town's streets were deserted by dusk.
    At five in the morning, there were still crowds of people roaming the streets.
    I bought these sunglasses from a street vendor in Florence.
- When people take to the streets, they express their opposition to something in public and often violently: 
    Thousands of people have taken to the streets to protest against the military coup.
idioms:
 be streets ahead
 be up your street
 the man/woman in the street
 on the streets
 the streets are paved with gold
 the whole street

apartment /əˈpɑːt.mənt/
- a set of rooms for living in, especially on one floor of a building: 
    I'll give you the keys to my apartment.
    They have six luxury apartments for sale.
    a holiday apartment
- a set of large rooms with expensive furniture and decoration in, for example, a public building or castle: 
    The Royal Apartments are open to the public.

court /kɔːt/
- a place where trials and other legal cases happen, or the people present in such a place, especially the officials and those deciding if someone is guilty: 
    Protestors gathered outside the court to await the verdict.
    He's due to appear in court again on Monday.
    Please describe to the court exactly what you saw.
    the European Court of Human Rights
    The lack of evidence means that the case is unlikely to go to court.
- to take legal action against someone: 
    She's threatening to take me to court for not paying the bill on time.
- to solve a legal disagreement without taking legal action: 
    The newspaper has agreed to settle out of court.
- an area drawn out on the ground that is used for playing sports such as tennis and basketball: 
    a tennis/volleyball/basketball/squash court
    They were penalized for having too many players on the court.
- an area or a short road that is not covered by a roof and is mostly or completely surrounded by buildings: 
    You really should go and see the medieval court in the castle.
- used in the names of some roads, and buildings containing apartments
- the official home of a queen or king: 
    the courts of Renaissance Europe
    He quickly lost his popularity at court.
- the important people who live in the official home of a queen or king or who work for or advise them
- to try to please someone because you want them to join you: 
    Adams is being courted by a number of football clubs.
- to try to get something, especially attention or support from other people: 
    She courts publicity by inviting journalists to extravagant parties.
- to risk something unpleasant, especially by behaving stupidly or carelessly: 
    Drinking and driving is simply courting disaster.
- to have a romantic relationship with someone that you hope to marry: 
    They courted for two years before getting married.

terrible /ˈter.ə.bəl/
- very unpleasant or serious or of low quality: 
    The weather was terrible.
    We have just received some terrible news.
- very bad at doing something: 
    You're a terrible liar.
    I'm a terrible skier/swimmer/dancer.
- used to emphasize the great degree of something: 
    This project is a terrible waste of money.
    She's a terrible nuisance.

clean /kliːn/
- not dirty: 
    a clean white shirt
    clean air/water
    Make sure your hands are clean before you have your dinner.
    Hospitals need to be kept spotlessly (= extremely) clean.
- honest or fair, or showing that you have not done anything illegal: 
    a good clean fight/contest
    The judge took the defendant's clean record (= the absence of previous involvement in crime) into account when passing sentence.
    I've always had a clean driving licence.
    It was a clean tackle. 
- not doing anything illegal, or not having or carrying illegal drugs or stolen goods: 
    The police busted Pete last night, but he was clean.
- morally acceptable: 
    It's all good, clean fun.
    clean living
- not about sex: 
    Can't you think of any clean jokes?
- having stopped taking an illegal drug after taking it regularly: 
    She is a former heroin addict who has been clean for about 13 years.
    It's incredibly hard for a junkie to stay clean.
- having no rough edges, and smooth, straight, or equally balanced: 
    I've broken my leg, but the doctor says that it's a clean break, so it should heal easily.
    A good clean hit from Pietersen sent the ball straight out to the boundary.
    What he liked about the car was its clean lines.
    I tried to make a clean cut, but the knife wasn't sharp enough.
- complete: 
    It's better for both of us if we make a clean break (of it) (= end our relationship completely).
    Sara says she needs a clean break with the past.
    The new prime minister is expected to make a clean sweep (= a complete change) of the government.
- When something you write on is clean, there is nothing on it or it is not yet used: 
    Take a clean sheet of paper.
- to remove dirt from something: 
    I'm going to clean the windows this morning.
    You should always clean your teeth after meals.
    Would you clean the fingermarks from/off the door?
    He asked her to help him clean out the stables.
- to become clean: 
    This carpet doesn't clean very well.
    I hope these bloodstains will clean off my shirt.
- to prepare a fish or an animal killed for food by removing the inside parts of it that are not eaten
- when something is cleaned: 
    These windows need a really thorough clean.
- completely: 
    I clean forgot that I was supposed to be meeting Lucy last night.
    He's been cheating his customers for years, and getting clean away with it.
    The bullet went clean through his shoulder.
idioms:
 (as) clean as a (new) pin
 a clean bill of health
 keep a clean sheet
 come clean
 make a clean breast of it
 clean up your act
phrasal verbs:
 clean sth out
 clean sb/sth out
 clean (sb/sth) up
 clean (sth) up
 clean sth up
 clean up after sb

learn /lɜːn/
learn | learned or UK also learnt | learned or UK also learnt
- to get knowledge or skill in a new subject or activity: 
    They learn Russian at school.
    "Can you drive?" "I'm learning."
    I've learned a lot about computers since I started work here.
    I'm learning to play the piano.
    First you'll learn (how) to use this machine.
- to make yourself remember a piece of writing by reading it or repeating it many times: 
    I don't know how actors manage to learn all those lines.
    We were told to learn Portia's speech by heart (= be able to say it from memory) for homework.
- to start to understand that you must change the way you behave: 
    She'll have to learn that she can't have everything she wants.
    She soon learned not to contradict him.
    He's not afraid to learn from his mistakes.
- to be told facts or information that you did not know: 
    We were all shocked to learn of his death.
    I later learned (that) the message had never arrived.
    I only learned about the accident later.
idioms:
 learn a/your lesson
 learn to live with sth

relax /rɪˈlæks/
- to (cause someone to) become less active and more calm and happy, or to (cause a part of the body to) become less stiff: 
    After work she relaxed with a cup of tea and the newspaper.
    A good massage will relax your tired muscles.
    He relaxed his grip on my arm (= he began to hold it less tightly).
- to make a rule or control less severe: 
    Two weeks after the police relaxed security at the airports, there was a bomb attack.
- to make curly hair straight or less tightly curled using a special chemical: 
    The same applies if your hair has been permed or relaxed.
    Cut styling time in half by relaxing the bottom layers of hair.
idioms:
 relax your grip/hold

million /ˈmɪl.jən/
million | plural million or millions
- the number 1,000,000: 
    The city has a population of almost a/one million.
    She got eight million dollars for appearing in that film.
    His business is worth millions of euros.
- a large number: 
    I must have told you a million times to close the windows when you leave the house.
- numbers between 1,000,000 and 1,000,000,000: 
    In wealthy areas, homes cost from €750,000 into the millions.
idioms:
 be one in a million
 one in a million
 look/feel like a million dollars
 thanks a million

charity /ˈtʃær.ə.ti/
- a system of giving money, food, or help free to those who are in need because they are ill, poor, or have no home, or any organization that has the purpose of providing money or helping in this way: 
    She does a lot of work for charity.
    People tend to give to (= give money to) charity at Christmas time.
    Proceeds from the sale of these cards will go to (= be given to) local charities.
    UNICEF is an international charity.
    They did a charity performance on the first night, to raise money for AIDS research.
- the quality of being kind to people and not judging them in a severe way
idioms:
 charity begins at home

accident /ˈæk.sɪ.dənt/
- something bad that happens that is not expected or intended and that often damages something or injures someone: 
    Josh had an accident and spilled water all over his work.
    She was injured in a car/road accident (= when one car hit another).
- something that happens by chance, without anyone intending or planning it: 
    It was no accident that she was standing there at that precise moment.
    I like to think it is not just accident that hidden in the word "created" are the letters R-E-A-D.
    Social status is often merely an accident of birth.
    He became president by an accident of history.
idioms:
 accidents will happen
 an accident waiting to happen
 by accident
 have an accident
 more by accident than design

prove /pruːv/
prove | proved | proved or mainly US proven
- to show a particular result after a period of time: 
    The operation proved a complete success.
    The dispute over the song rights proved impossible to resolve.
    The new treatment has proved to be a disaster.
- to show that you are good at something: 
    I wish he'd stop trying to prove himself all the time.
- to show that something is true: 
    They suspected that she'd killed him but they could never actually prove that it was her.
    They proved him innocent/guilty.
    Under the present system, you're innocent until proven guilty.
    "I lost £30 on the bus." "That just goes to prove what an idiot you are!"
    Computers have been used to prove mathematical theorems.
    That theory was proved false.
    He's so aggressive - it's as if he's always trying to prove something.

smart /smɑːt/
- having a clean, tidy, and stylish appearance: 
    Guy looks very smart in his new suit, doesn't he?
    I need a smart jacket for my interview.
    She works in a very smart new office overlooking the river.
- A place or event that is smart attracts fashionable, stylish, or rich people: 
    a smart restaurant
    We went to a very smart party on New Year's Eve.
- intelligent, or able to think quickly or intelligently in difficult situations: 
    Maddy's teacher says she's one of the smartest kids in the class.
    Why don't you fix it if you're so smart?
    I'm not smart enough to understand computers.
    He's smart enough to know he can't run the business without her.
    Quitting that job was the smartest move I ever made.
- done quickly with a lot of force or effort: 
    She gave him a smart smack on the bottom.
    We'll have to work at a smart pace if we're going to finish on time.
- A smart machine, weapon, etc. uses computers to make it work so that it is able to act in an independent way: 
    Until the advent of smart weapons, repeated attacks were needed to ensure the destruction of targets.
- not showing respect, especially when making a funny remark: 
    Don't get smart with me, young lady!
    Your smart mouth is going to get you into trouble.
- in a clever and effective way: 
    We have to work hard and work smart.
    They are encouraging people to eat smart and adopt a healthy lifestyle.
- to hurt with a sharp pain: 
    My eyes were smarting from the onions.
- to feel upset and angry because of failure or criticism: 
    The police are still smarting from their failure to prevent the robbery.

message /ˈmes.ɪdʒ/
- a short piece of information that you give to a person when you cannot speak to them directly: 
    If I'm not there when you call, leave a message.
    I got a message that she'll be late.
- the most important idea in a book, film, or play, or an idea that you want to tell people about: 
    The movie's message is that rich and poor are alike.
    We need to send a clear message that pollution will not be tolerated.
- to understand what someone is trying to tell you, even if that person is not expressing himself or herself directly: 
    I never answer his calls, so you'd think he'd get the message.
- to make someone understand: 
    We need to get the message across that too much sun is dangerous.
- to send someone a short message using a mobile phone or computer: 
    I messaged him yesterday but haven't had a reply.

small /smɔːl/
- little in size or amount when compared with what is typical or average: 
    a small dog/house/car/country
    I'd rather live in a small town than a big city.
    Would you like a large or small cola with your burger?
    Ella is the smallest girl in her class.
    That jacket's too small for you.
    He's small for his age.
    Only a small number of applicants are successful.
    The number of women in parliament is pitifully (= extremely) small.
    Liqueurs are usually drunk in small quantities.
- A small child is a very young child that is older than a baby: 
    Taking care of small children can be very tiring.
- limited in the amount of an activity: 
    The government should give more help to small businessmen (= people whose businesses are of a limited size).
    Chris is a small eater so he won't want much.
    If you can help us in a small way (= to a limited degree) it would be greatly appreciated.
- not very important or not likely to cause problems: 
    She just made a couple of small mistakes in the test.
    I have a small problem I would like to discuss with you.
- ashamed or weak: 
    Talking to her makes me feel small.
    He's always trying to make me look small in front of my boss.
- Small letters are not capital letters: 
    The poet e e cummings sometimes wrote his name with small letters.
- in a small size: 
    The instructions are printed so small I can hardly read them.
- the middle of the lower back: 
    I have a pain in the small of my back.
- underwear, especially when being washed or about to be washed: 
    Do you have any smalls that need washing?
idioms:
 grateful/thankful for small mercies
 it's a small world
 a small fortune
 small wonder
 with a small "c", "d", etc.

interest /ˈɪn.trəst/
- the feeling of wanting to give your attention to something or of wanting to be involved with and to discover more about something: 
    I've always had an interest in astronomy.
    He never seems to show any interest in his children.
    Unfortunately, I lost interest half way through the film.
    She takes more of an interest in politics these days.
    Just out of interest, how old is your wife?
- Your interests are the activities that you enjoy doing and the subjects that you like to spend time learning about: 
    On his form he lists his interests as cycling and cooking.
- the quality that makes you think that something is interesting: 
    Would this book be of any interest to you?
- something that brings advantages to or affects someone or something: 
    A union looks after the interests of its members.
    It's in his interests to keep careful records.
    In the interests of safety, please do not smoke.
    Despite what you think, I'm only acting in your best interests (= doing what is best for you).
- money that is charged by a bank or other financial organization for borrowing money: 
    Interest charges on an overdraft are usually quite high.
- money that you earn from keeping your money in an account in a bank or other financial organization: 
    You should put the money in a savings account where it will earn interest.
- an involvement or a legal right, usually relating to a business or possessions: 
    He is a multi-millionaire with business interests around the world.
    When they divorced she retained a legal interest in the property.
- If someone or something interests you, you want to give that person or thing your attention and discover more about him, her, or it: 
    Sport has never really interested me.
phrasal verbs:
 interest sb in sth

table /ˈteɪ.bəl/
- a flat surface, usually supported by four legs, used for putting things on
- the people sitting at a table: 
    There was a really noisy table behind us celebrating someone's birthday.
- a table that you work at in an office
- to put a cloth, knives, and forks, etc. on the table in preparation for a meal: 
    Could you set the table for lunch, please?
- an arrangement of facts and numbers in rows or blocks, especially in printed material
- a 
multiplication table 
- a list of the information that is contained in a book
- to suggest something for discussion: 
    An amendment to the proposal was tabled by Mrs James.
- to delay discussion of a subject: 
    The suggestion was tabled for discussion at a later date.
idioms:
 on the table
 under the table

become /bɪˈkʌm/
become | became | become
- to start to be: 
    I was becoming increasingly suspicious of his motives.
    It was becoming cold, so we lit the fire.
    After giving up smoking, he became fat and irritable.
    Margaret Thatcher became the UK's first woman prime minister in 1979.
    He has just become a father.
- to cause someone to look attractive, or to be suitable for someone: 
    That colour really becomes you.
phrasal verbs:
 become of sb/sth

mouth /maʊθ/
- the opening in the face of a person or animal, consisting of the lips and the space between them, or the space behind containing the teeth and the tongue: 
    Open your mouth wide and say "Ah".
    You shouldn't put so much food in your mouth at once.
- the opening of a narrow container, the opening of a hole or cave, or the place where a river flows into the sea: 
    Quebec is at the mouth of the St Lawrence River.
- to form words with the lips without making any sound: 
    It looks to me as if the singers are only mouthing the words .
    "Can we go?" mouthed Mary.
- to say something in a way that is not sincere: 
    I don't want to stand here listening to you mouthing apologies.
idioms:
 be all mouth
 be down in the mouth
 keep your mouth shut
 make sb's mouth water
 a mouth to feed
 out of the mouths of babes (and sucklings)
phrasal verbs:
 mouth off (about sth)
 mouth off (to/at sb)

pregnant /ˈpreɡ.nənt/
- (of a woman and some female animals) having a baby or babies developing inside the womb: 
    She's five and a half months pregnant.
    My mother stopped smoking when she became pregnant.
    He believes that men who get (= make) young girls pregnant should be severely punished.
    My sister is pregnant with twins.
- filled with meaning or importance that has not yet been expressed or understood: 
    There followed a pregnant pause in which both knew what the other was thinking but neither knew what to say.

middle /ˈmɪd.əl/
- the central point, position, or part: 
    This is my class photo - I'm the one in the middle.
    He was standing in the middle of the road.
    The noise woke us up in the middle of the night.
- waist: 
    Those trousers look a bit tight around your middle.
- in a central position: 
    In the sequence a, b, c, d, e, the middle letter is c.
    Jane sits at the middle desk, between Sue and Karen.
- neither high nor low in importance, amount, or size: 
    middle income families
    a middle-sized (= average-sized) sheepdog
- A middle child has the same number of older brothers and sisters as younger brothers and sisters: 
    She's the middle child of three.
- used to refer to a form of a particular language that existed between its earliest known stage and its present form: 
    14th-century Middle English
    Middle French
idioms:
 be in the middle of sth
 divide/split (sth) down the middle
 (in) the middle of nowhere
 follow/steer/take the middle course/way/path

ring /rɪŋ/
- a circle of any material, or any group of things or people in a circular shape or arrangement: 
    The game involved throwing metal rings over a stick.
    The children sat in a ring around the teacher.
- a circular piece of jewellery worn especially on your finger: 
    He bought her a diamond/emerald, etc. ring (= a ring with a jewel attached to it).
- a group of people who help each other, often secretly and in a way that is to their advantage: 
    a drug ring
    a spy ring
- a circular piece of material often made of metal that can be heated in order to be used for cooking: 
    a gas ring
    an electric ring
- a special area where people perform or compete: 
    a boxing ring
    The horses trotted round the ring.
- two round handles at the ends of two long ropes that hang from the ceiling and are used in gymnastics
- the act of making a phone call to someone: 
    I'll give you a ring tomorrow.
- the sound a bell makes: 
    There was a ring at the door.
    He gave a ring at the door.
- to make a phone call to someone: 
    I ring home once a week to tell my parents I'm okay.
    There's been an accident - can you ring for an ambulance?
    The boss rang (in) to say he'll be back at 4.30.
    I rang round the airlines (= called many of them) to find out the cheapest price.
    Why don't you ring (up) Simon and ask him to the party?
- to (cause to) make the sound of a bell: 
    The doorbell/phone rang.
    Anne's alarm clock rang for half an hour before she woke.
    I rang the bell but nobody came to the door.
    My head is/My ears are still ringing (= are full of a ringing noise) from the sound of the military band.
- to surround something: 
    Armed police ringed the hijacked plane.
    The harbour is dangerous - it's ringed by/with rocks and reefs.
- to draw a circle around something: 
    Students should ring the correct answers in pencil.
- to put a ring on something, especially an animal: 
    We ringed the birds (= put rings around their legs) so that we could identify them later.
idioms:
 have a familiar ring (to it)
 have a/the ring of truth
 run rings round sb
 ring a bell
 ring the changes (on)
 ring true/false
phrasal verbs:
 ring (sb) back
 ring off
 ring out
 ring sb/sth up
 ring sth up
 ring with sth

careful /ˈkeə.fəl/
- giving a lot of attention to what you are doing so that you do not have an accident, make a mistake, or damage something: 
    Be careful with the glasses.
    Be careful where you put that hot pan.
    Be careful to look both ways when you cross the road.
    Michael is a very careful worker.
    After careful consideration of your proposal, I regret to say that we are unable to accept it.
    He's in a really foul temper so be careful (about/of) what you say to him.

shall strong /ʃæl/
- used instead of "will" when the subject is "I" or "we": 
    If you do that one more time, I shall be very angry.
    I shall never forget you.
    I'm afraid I shall not/shan't be able to come to your party.
    I shall look forward to meeting you next week.
    So we'll see you at the weekend, shall we (= is that right)?
    We shall (= intend to) let you know as soon as there's any news.
- used, with "I" or "we", to make a suggestion: 
    "I'm cold." "Shall I close this window?"
    Shall we go out for dinner tonight?
    Shall I call him tomorrow?
- used to say that something certainly will or must happen, or that you are determined that something will happen: 
    Don't worry, I shall be there to meet the train.
    The school rules state that no child shall be allowed out of the school during the day, unless accompanied by an adult.
    You shall go to the ball, Cinderella.

team /tiːm/
- a number of people or animals who do something together as a group: 
    a basketball/hockey/netball team
    a team of investigators
    Team GB (= the athletes representing Great Britain in a sport)
- used in a number of phrases that refer to people working together as a group in order to achieve something: 
    It was a real team effort - everyone contributed something to the success of the project.
- used to refer to a group of people who support a particular person or a particular point of view: 
    In this discussion, we're on Team Marisa.
- to act together to achieve something: 
    Lang teamed with Draper to develop the vaccine.
phrasal verbs:
 team up

ride /raɪd/
ride | rode | ridden
- to sit on something such as a bicycle, motorbike, or horse and travel along on it controlling its movements: 
    I learned to ride a bike when I was six.
    I ride my moped to work.
    I ride to work on my moped.
    The hunters came riding by/past on their horses.
- to ride a horse: 
    Can you ride?
    Their daughter is learning to ride.
    He rides well/badly.
- to travel in a vehicle, such as a car, bus, or train: 
    He doesn't have a car so he rides to work on the bus.
    We rode the train from San Diego to Portland.
- to try to control someone and force them to work: 
    Your boss is riding you much too hard at the moment.
- a journey on a horse or bicycle, or in a vehicle: 
    It's a short bus ride to the airport.
    I went for a (horse) ride last Saturday.
    Do you want to come for a ride on my bike?
- a free journey in a car to a place where you want to go: 
    He asked me for a ride into town.
- a person who gives you a ride in their car: 
    Well, I have to go - my ride is here.
- someone's car: 
    Hey, nice ride.
- a machine in an amusement park that people travel in or are moved around by for entertainment: 
    We went on all the rides.
    My favourite ride is the Ferris wheel.
idioms:
 be riding for a fall
 be riding high
 let sth ride
 ride (on) a wave of sth
 ride herd on sb/sth
 ride (out) the storm
 ride roughshod over sb/sth
 a full ride
 a rough ride
 take sb for a ride
phrasal verbs:
 ride on sth/sb
 ride sth out
 ride up

figure /ˈfɪɡ.ər/
- the symbol for a number or an amount expressed in numbers: 
    Can you read this figure? Is it a three or an eight?
    Write the amount in both words and figures.
    I looked quickly down the column of figures.
    He earns a six-figure salary (= an amount of money with six figures).
- between 1 and 9/between 10 and 99: 
    The unemployment rate is now in double figures.
- the shape of the human body, or a person: 
    I could see two tall figures in the distance.
    A strange bearded figure (= person) entered the room.
    She was a central/key/leading figure in (= was an important person in) the movement for constitutional reform.
- a painting, drawing, or model of a person: 
    There are several reclining figures in the painting.
- a woman's body shape: 
    She's got a beautiful figure.
    She got her figure back (= returned to her usual shape) after having the baby.
- a picture or drawing, often with a number, in a book or other document: 
    Please see figures 8 and 9.
- to expect or think that something will happen: 
    We figured (that) you'd want to rest after your trip.
- to be, appear, take part, or be included in something: 
    Their names did not figure in the list of finalists.
    They denied that violence and intimidation had figured prominently in achieving the decision.
- to calculate an amount: 
    I'm still figuring my taxes.
idioms:
 a fine figure of a man/woman
 put a figure on it
 go figure!
 it figures
phrasal verbs:
 figure sth/sb out

wear /weər/
wear | wore | worn
- to have clothing, jewellery, etc. on your body: 
    Tracey is wearing a simple black dress.
    What are you wearing to Caroline's wedding?
    Some musicians don't like to wear rings when they're playing.
    He wears glasses for reading.
    She wears very little make-up.
- to show a particular emotion on your face: 
    The politician wore a confident smile throughout the interview.
- to arrange your hair in a particular way: 
    When she's working she wears her hair in a ponytail.
    You should wear your hair up (= so that it does not hang down) more often - it suits you.
- to become weaker, damaged, or thinner because of continuous use: 
    I really like this shirt but it's starting to wear at the collar.
    The wheel bearings have worn over the years, which is what's causing the noise.
- to produce something such as a hole or loss of material by continuous use, rubbing, or movement: 
    I always seem to wear a hole in the left elbow of my sweaters.
    Over many years, flowing water wore deep grooves into the rock.
    Wind and water slowly wore down the mountain's jagged edges.
- to allow or accept something: 
    I'd ask my boss for some time off but I don't think she'd wear it.
- clothes suitable for a particular use or clothes of a particular type: 
    casual wear
    leisure wear
    knitwear
- the amount or type of use an object has had or can be expected to have: 
    I've had a lot of wear out of these boots - I've had them for five years.
    When choosing a wood for flooring, be sure to choose one which is able to withstand hard wear.
- damage caused to something caused by using it a lot: 
    I've only worn the shirt a couple of times and it's already showing signs of wear.
    On closer examination, though, the extent of wear on the teeth made it clear that they were dealing with a fully grown adult. 
idioms:
 wear your heart on your sleeve
 wear the trousers
 wear thin
phrasal verbs:
 wear (sth) away
 wear sb down
 wear off
 wear on
 wear sb out
 wear (sth) out

shoot /ʃuːt/
shoot | shot | shot
- to fire a bullet or an arrow, or to hit, injure, or kill a person or animal by firing a bullet or arrow at him, her, or it: 
    If he's not armed, don't shoot.
    The kids were shooting arrows at a target.
    She was shot three times in the head.
    He has a licence to shoot pheasants on the farmer's land.
    A policeman was shot deadin the city centre last night.
    The troops were told to shoot to kill.
- to try to score points for yourself or your team, in sports involving a ball, by kicking, hitting, or throwing the ball towards the goal: 
    He shot from the middle of the field and still managed to score.
- to play basketball
- to move in a particular direction very quickly and directly: 
    She shot past me several metres before the finishing line.
    He shot out of the office a minute ago - I think he was late for a meeting.
    They were just shooting off to work so we didn't stop to talk.
    Sylvester Stallone shot to fame (= became famous suddenly) with the movie "Rocky".
- to move through or past something quickly: 
    He shot three sets of traffic lights (= went past them when they gave the signal to stop) before the police caught him.
    It was so exhilarating shooting the rapids (= travelling through the part of a river where the water flows dangerously fast).
- to use a camera to record a video or take a photograph: 
    We shot four reels of film in Egypt.
    The movie was shot on location in Southern India.
- to play a game of pool or craps
- to take an illegal drug by injecting yourself with it: 
    By the time he was 16, he was shooting heroin twice a day.
- the first part of a plant to appear above the ground as it develops from a seed, or any new growth on an already existing plant: 
    Two weeks after we'd planted the seeds, little green shoots started to appear.
    The first green shoots (= hopeful signs) of economic recovery have started to appear.
- an occasion when photographers take a series of photographs, usually of the same person or people in the same place: 
    We did a fashion shoot on the beach, with the girls modelling swimwear.
- an occasion on which a group of people go to an area of the countryside to shoot animals
- used to tell someone that they should speak: 
    "Dad, I need to talk to you." "Shoot."
idioms:
 have shot your bolt
 shoot sth/sb down (in flames)
 shoot yourself in the foot
 shoot your mouth off
 shoot a glance at sb
 shoot for the moon
 shoot from the hip
 shoot questions at sb
 shoot the breeze
 shoot the works
 sb should be shot
phrasal verbs:
 shoot sth down
 shoot sb down
 shoot for sth
 shoot sth off 
 shoot it out
 shoot through
 shoot up
 shoot sth up

stick /stɪk/
- a thin piece of wood or other material: 
    The old man was carrying a load of sticks.
    Police said that the child had been beaten with a stick.
    Find some dry sticks and we'll make a campfire.
    A lollipop is a sweet on a stick.
- a long, thin wooden pole that especially old or injured people use to help them walk: 
    a walking stick
    At 84 he's still quite active, although he walks with the aid of a stick.
- a long, thin piece of wood used in playing various sports: 
    a hockey/lacrosse/polo stick
- a long, thin piece of something: 
    carrot/bread sticks
    a stick of celery/rhubarb/chewing gum/chalk/dynamite
- a car with a stick shift: 
    Do you drive a stick?
- a piece of furniture: 
    When they got married, they didn't have a stick of furniture.
- to hit someone or something with a long, thin piece of wood: 
    He said that when he was a boy, his father used to take a stick to him to punish him.
- severe criticism: 
    I really got/took stick from my boss about being late for work again.
    We gave him some stick for wearing that silly hat.
- an area in the countryside that is far from a town or city: 
    I'm sick of living in the sticks.
    They live out in the sticks somewhere.
- to cause something to become fixed, for example with glue or another similar substance: 
    I tried to stick the pieces together with some glue/tape.
    He stuck up an announcement on the board with pins.
    This glue won't stick.
    My car's stuck in the mud.
    Stir the sauce so that it doesn't stick to the pan.
    My book got wet and all the pages have stuck together.
- If a name sticks, it continues to be used: 
    Although her name is Clare, her little sister called her Lali, and somehow the name stuck.
- to put something somewhere, especially in a not very careful way: 
    "Where shall I put these books?" "Oh, just stick them on the table for now."
    She stuck her fingers in her ears so that she couldn't hear the noise.
    I'll pay for lunch - I can stick it on my expenses.
- If you tell someone to stick something or where they can stick something, it means that you do not want to keep that thing: 
    "I've had enough of working here," she said, "You can stick your job!"
- to push a pointed object into or through something, or (of a pointed object) to be pushed into or through something and stay there: 
    She stuck the needle into my arm.
    We decided where to go for our holiday by closing our eyes and sticking a pin in the map.
    A thorn stuck in her finger.
    The metal springs were sticking through the mattress.
- In some card games, if you stick, you say that you do not want to be given any more cards.
- to bear or accept something or someone unpleasant: 
    I don't think I can stick this job a day longer.
    I don't know how you can stick living in this place.
idioms:
 a stick to beat sb with
 sticks and stones may break my bones, (but words can never hurt me)
 up sticks
 make sth stick
 stick in sb's mind/head/memory
 stick in sb's throat
 stick in sb's craw
 stick to sb like glue
 stick to sb's ribs
phrasal verbs:
 stick around
 stick at sth
 stick by sth/sb
 stick out
 stick (sth) out
 stick it out
 stick out for sth
 stick to sth
 stick together
 stick up
 stick sth/sb up
 stick up for sth/sb
 stick sb with sth
 stick with sth/sb

ray /reɪ/
- a narrow beam of light, heat, etc. travelling in a straight line from its place of origin: 
    A ray of sunshine shone through a gap in the clouds.
    Light rays bend as they pass from air to water.
- to stay outside in the sun for a period of time: 
    I'm going out to catch a few rays before lunch.
- a small amount of a feeling that makes you feel happier or more full of hope: 
    There's still a ray of hope that the missing child will be found alive.
- a large, flat sea fish with a long, narrow tail
- the musical note 
re 
idioms:
 ray of sunshine

follow /ˈfɒl.əʊ/
- to move behind someone or something and go where he, she, or it goes: 
    A dog followed us home.
    She followed me into the kitchen.
    He had the feeling he was being followed (= someone was going after him to catch him or see where he was going).
    I could feel them following me with their eyes (= watching my movements closely).
    Do your own thing, don't just follow the crowd (= do what everyone else does).
- to go in the same direction as a road, path, etc.: 
    Follow the road for two miles, then turn left.
- to do the same thing as someone else: 
    When one airline reduces its prices, the rest soon follow suit.
- to happen or come after something: 
    We were not prepared for the events that followed (= happened next).
    The book was delivered yesterday with a note saying the bill for it would follow in a day or two.
    The meal consisted of spinach salad, followed by roast chicken (= with this as the next part).
    She published a book of poems and followed it (up) with (= next produced) a novel.
- said to introduce a list of things: 
    The winners are as follows - Woods, Smith, and Cassidy.
- to obey or to act as ordered by someone: 
    Follow the instructions on the back of the packet carefully.
    I decided to follow her advice and go to bed early.
    Muslims follow the teachings of the Koran.
- to have a great interest in something or watch something closely: 
    He follows most sports avidly.
    They followed her academic progress closely.
- to happen as a result, or to be a likely result: 
    Just because I agreed last time, it doesn't necessarily follow that I will again.
- to understand something as it is being said or done: 
    I'm sorry, I don't quite follow (you).
    His lecture was complicated and difficult to follow.
- to read the notes or words of a piece of music or writing at the same time as they are being played or said
- If you follow a particular person on a social media website (= a website where people can publish their thoughts, photographs, information about themselves etc.), you choose to see everything that person posts (= publishes) on the website.
idioms:
 follow your nose
 follow in sb's footsteps
phrasal verbs:
 follow on
 follow (sth) through
 follow through
 follow sth up

angry /ˈæŋ.ɡri/
- having a strong feeling against someone who has behaved badly, making you want to shout at them or hurt them: 
    He's really angry at/with me for upsetting Sophie.
    I don't understand what he's angry about.
    They feel angry that their complaints were ignored.
    I got really angry with her.
    It made me really angry.
- An angry sea or sky is one where there is a storm, or where it looks as if there will be a storm soon.
- If an infected area of the body is angry, it is red and painful: 
    On her leg was an angry sore.

instead /ɪnˈsted/
- in place of someone or something else: 
    There's no coffee - would you like a cup of tea instead?

buddy /ˈbʌd.i/
- a friend: 
    Bob and I have been buddies for years.
- someone who provides friendly help to someone with an illness or a problem: 
    We run a buddy system to support recovering alcoholics.
- someone who does an activity with you so that you can support and encourage each other: 
    We became workout buddies.
    a study buddy
- used when talking to a man, sometimes in a friendly way but often when you are annoyed: 
    Drink up and go home, buddy.
- used by an adult talking to a young boy in a friendly and kind way: 
    Are you okay there, buddy?

write /raɪt/
write | wrote | written or old use writ
- to make marks that represent letters, words, or numbers on a surface, such as paper or a computer screen, using a pen, pencil, or keyboard, or to use this method to record thoughts, facts, or messages: 
    When you fill in the form, please write clearly/legibly in black ink.
    "I hope to see you next Saturday," she wrote.
    Why not write (down) your ideas on a piece of paper before you start?
- to send a letter or message to someone, giving them information or expressing your thoughts or feelings: 
    She hasn't written to me (US also written me) recently.
    I wrote my sister a letter.
    My mother wrote to give me details about the party.
    The travel company has written giving information about the trip.
- to put all the information that is needed on a document: 
    Please will you write (out) your name and address in full.
    I wrote him a cheque for £50.
- to create and record something, such as a book, poem, song, or computer program, on paper or on a computer: 
    She writes children's books/poems.
    Adam designed and wrote the software.
    He wrote music for films and TV shows.
    The book is very well written.
- to have the job of creating books, stories, or articles that will be published: 
    She writes for a national newspaper.
- to say something in a book, newspaper, magazine, or document: 
    In the article, he writes that the problems in the refugee camps are getting worse.
- to record information in the memory of a computer: 
    There was a problem writing to the disk in the A drive.
idioms:
 nothing to write home about
 written all over sb's face
 written in the stars
phrasal verbs:
 write back
 write sth down
 write in
 write sb in
 write sth into sth
 write sth off
 write sb/sth off
 write off/away for sth
 write sb out of sth
 write sth up
 write sb up

early /ˈɜː.li/
early | earlier | earliest
- near the beginning of a period of time, or before the usual, expected, or planned time: 
    If you finish early you can go home.
    If you arrived earlier, you'd have more time.
    I like being a little early for interviews.
    They scored two goals early (on) in the game.
    I hate having to get up early (in the morning).
    I'm going to have an early night (= go to sleep before my usual time).
    She was a poet living in the early 15th century.
    He learned to read at the early age of three.
    It's a little early to be sowing carrot seeds, isn't it?
    Henry Ford was a pioneer during the early days/years of car manufacture.
    My earliest (= first) memory is of being shown around our new house.
    These are some of my early (= first) attempts at sculpture.
    Here's a dish I prepared earlier (= I made a short time ago).
- Early flowers and vegetables are ones that are ready early in the year, before most other ones.
- used after a date or time to show that something will not happen before then: 
    I'm very busy, so I won't be with you till four o'clock at the earliest.
idioms:
 an early bath
 early to bed and early to rise (makes a man healthy, wealthy, and wise)
 the early bird catches the worm
 it's early days
 drive/send sb to an early grave

angel /ˈeɪn.dʒəl/
- a spiritual being in some religions who is believed to be a messenger of God, usually represented as having a human form with wings: 
    According to the Bible, an angel told Mary that she would have God's son, Jesus.
- someone who is very good, helpful, or kind: 
    Be an angel and help me with this.
- used when speaking to someone you like very much and know very well: 
    What's the matter, angel?
    Come along, my angels, time for bed.
- a rich person who invests in a new company: 
    Wealthy individual investors, known as angels, differ from lenders in that they want a stake in your business.
idioms:
 be no angel
 be on the side of the angels

nick /nɪk/
- a small cut in a surface or an edge: 
    Apart from a few nicks in the varnish, the guitar is in very good condition.
- prison: 
    He's been in the nick half his life.
- a stated condition, especially of health: 
    He's in pretty good nick for a man of his age.
    The car really is in excellent nick.
- to steal something: 
    I've had my bike nicked again.
    All right, who's nicked my ruler?
- If the police nick someone, they catch them for committing a crime: 
    They nicked him for driving at 70 in a 50 speed limit area.
- to cheat someone or to charge someone too much money: 
    $50 for a meal like that - we were nicked!
    If your bank account balance falls below the minimum, you'll be nicked for a $5 service charge.
- to make a small cut in a surface or an edge: 
    Paintwork on the corner of a stairway tends to get nicked and scratched.
idioms:
 in the nick of time

ran /ræn/
- past simple of
run 

war /wɔːr/
- armed fighting between two or more countries or groups, or a particular example of this: 
    nuclear war
    a war film/grave/hero/poet
    If this country goes to (= starts to fight in a) war we will have to face the fact that many people will die.
    Britain and France declared war on Germany in 1939 as a result of the invasion of Poland.
    War broke out between the two countries after a border dispute.
    They've been at war for the last five years.
    He died in the First World War/the Vietnam war.
- a war that is fought over a long period and only ends when one side has neither the soldiers and equipment nor the determination left to continue fighting
- a situation, often before a competition or battle, in which each opposing side attempts to frighten or discourage the other by making threats or by showing how strong it is
- any situation in which there is strong competition between opposing sides or a great fight against something harmful: 
    The past few months have witnessed a price war between leading supermarkets.
    The president vowed to wage war on/against terrorism.
    the war on drugs
idioms:
 be in the wars
 war clouds are gathering

forgive /fəˈɡɪv/
forgive | forgave | forgiven
- to stop blaming or being angry with someone for something that person has done, or not punish them for something: 
    I don't think she's ever quite forgiven me for getting her name wrong that time.
    I've never found it easy to forgive and forget (= to behave as if something wrong had never happened).
    I'd never forgive myself if anything happened to the kids.
- used before you ask or say something that might seem rude: 
    Forgive me for asking, but how much did you pay for your bag?
- to say that money does not have to be paid back: 
    The new program would forgive state loans to new graduates who teach in Nebraska.

jail /dʒeɪl/
- a place where criminals are kept to punish them for their crimes, or where people accused of crimes are kept while waiting for their trials: 
    the country's overcrowded jails
    a 13-year jail sentence/term
    The financier was released from jail last week.
    They spent ten years in jail for fraud.
    They don't throw anyone in jail for parking illegally, but they will tow your car and charge you a fine.
- to put someone in a jail: 
    He was jailed for three years.

lunch /lʌntʃ/
- a meal that is eaten in the middle of the day: 
    What's for lunch?
    We had a pub lunch.
    I'm sorry, Joanna isn't here at the moment, she's (gone) out to/gone to lunch.
    We must do lunch sometime (= have lunch together).
- to eat lunch: 
    I'm lunching with Giles.
idioms:
 be out to lunch

eight /eɪt/
- the number 8: 
    She was eight (years old) when her family moved here.
    We've got eight people coming to dinner.

thousand /ˈθaʊ.zənd/
thousand | plural thousand or thousands
- the number 1,000: 
    They had driven over a/one thousand miles.
    The population of the village is about three thousand.
    The damage will cost thousands of dollars to repair.
- a large number: 
    I have a thousand things to do before we go away.
- numbers between 1,000 and 1,000,000: 
    His latest work is expected to sell in the thousands.

music /ˈmjuː.zɪk/
- a pattern of sounds made by musical instruments, voices, or computers, or a combination of these, intended to give pleasure to people listening to it: 
    classical/pop/dance/rock music
    a beautiful piece of music
    What kind of music do you listen to?
    They play good music on this (radio) station.
    I just like making music (= playing an instrument or singing).
    Shall I put on some music (= play a recording)?
- the art or study of music: 
    I studied music at college.
    the music business/industry
    music lessons
- the written system of symbols representing musical notes: 
    Can you read music?
idioms:
 be music to sb's ears

tough /tʌf/
- strong; not easily broken or made weaker or defeated: 
    These toys are made from tough plastic.
    Children's shoes need to be tough.
    You have to be tough to be successful in politics.
    Their lawyer is a real tough customer/nut (= person).
- strong and determined: 
    Tough new safety standards have been introduced for cars.
    There have been calls for tougher controls/restrictions on what online retailers are allowed to sell.
    After some tough bargaining, we finally agreed on a deal.
    I think it's time the police got tougher on/with (= treated more severely) people who drink and drive.
    The government is continuing to take a tough line on terrorism.
- difficult to do or to deal with: 
    They've had an exceptionally tough life.
    They will be a tough team to beat.
    The company is going through a tough time at the moment.
    We've had to make some very tough decisions.
    My boss has given me a tough job/assignment.
    Many homeless people are facing a tough winter.
- Tough food is difficult to cut or eat: 
    This steak is very tough.
    These apples have tough skins.
- likely to be violent or to contain violence; not kind or pleasant: 
    a tough neighbourhood
    Many of the country's toughest criminals are held in this prison.
- unlucky: 
    "I have to work late today because I'm very behind on my work." "Oh, tough luck!"
    It's tough on Geoff that he's going to miss the party.
- sometimes used to show that you have no sympathy for someone's problems or difficulties: 
    "I don't have any money left." "Well, (that's just) tough - you shouldn't have spent it all on cigarettes."
- a violent person: 
    Bands of armed toughs roamed the city.
idioms:
 it's tough at the top
 (as) tough as old boots
 tough luck

tape /teɪp/
- thin plastic in a long, narrow strip with a magnetic covering that allows sounds or sounds and pictures to be recorded and played again, especially one on which sound is recorded: 
    magnetic tape
    I've got that film on tape (= recorded) if you want to borrow it.
    If you give me a blank tape (= one with nothing on it) I'll record it for you.
- a long, narrow strip of material that is sometimes sticky on one side: 
    I need some tape and scissors to wrap the present.
    sticky tape
- a tape stretched across the finishing line of a race that the winner breaks as they finish
- to record something on tape
- to use strips of sticky material, especially to fix two things together or to fasten a parcel: 
    She taped a note to the door.
idioms:
 have sb taped
phrasal verbs:
 tape sth up

count /kaʊnt/
- to say numbers one after the other in order, or to calculate the number of people or things in a group: 
    Let's count out loud (= speak the words) from one to ten.
    The teachers counted the students as they got on to the bus.
    Count your money carefully to make sure it's all there.
    We need to count who's here, so we can make sure that no one's missing.
    There'll be eight for dinner, counting (= including) ourselves.
    We're still waiting for the votes to be counted (up).
- to count the number of people present somewhere: 
    There look to be about 50 people here - I haven't counted heads yet.
- to have value or importance: 
    I've always believed that happiness counts more than money.
    My opinion doesn't count for anything around here (= no one values my opinion).
- to consider or be considered as: 
    I count myself fortunate to have had such a good education.
    I've had three jobs in the last five years, but one of them was unpaid, so it doesn't count (= cannot be considered as a real job).
    I've always counted Sophia among my closest friends.
    I didn't think his grudging remarks really counted as an apology.
- the act of counting, or the total number of things counted: 
    Having done a quick count, I find I've planted 25 different ferns.
    The current head count (= total number of people) is about 31,500 employees.
    We had 450 members at the last count (= when they were last counted).
- the act of counting the votes in an election, or the event when this happens: 
    Early counts show Mr Adams in the lead.
    The candidate's spouse and election agent are also entitled to be present at the count.
    He lost by 3% of the vote, and has challenged the count in court.
- to record how many of something there are, or how many times something has happened: 
    So many people asked us for help, it was hard to keep count.
- to not be able to remember how many times something has happened: 
    I've lost count of how many times she's been late for work this month.
- a scientifically measured amount of something: 
    a high pollen count
    a low blood/sperm count
- when a particular number is reached: 
    On the count of three, I'd like you all to stand up.
- a European man of the same social rank as an English earl
- a particular crime that a person is accused of: 
    The prisoner was found guilty on two counts of murder.
- an opinion in a discussion or argument: 
    I'm afraid I disagree with you on all/several counts (= I disagree with all/several of your opinions).
idioms:
 ...and counting
 could count sth on (the fingers of) one hand
 count your blessings
 count the cost
 don't count your chickens before they're hatched
 be out for the count
phrasal verbs:
 count against sb/sth
 count sb in
 count on sb
 count on sth
 count sth out
 count sb out
 count towards sth

college /ˈkɒl.ɪdʒ/
- a university where you can study for an undergraduate (= first) degree: 
    I met my husband when we were in college.
    They want their kids to go to (= study at) college.
    a college student/professor/graduate
- any place for specialized education after the age of 16 where people study or train to get knowledge and/or skills: 
    a teacher training college
    a secretarial college
    a Naval college
    She's at art college.
    a sixth form college
- one of the separate and named parts into which some universities are divided: 
    King's College, Cambridge
    I attended the College of Arts and Sciences at New York University.
    Cambridge has some very fine old colleges (= college buildings).
- in Britain and Australia, used in the names of some schools for children, especially private schools (= where education is paid for by parents): 
    Cheltenham Ladies' College
- a group of people with a particular job, purpose, duty, or power who are organized into a group for sharing ideas, making decisions, etc.: 
    the Royal College of Medicine/Nursing

boyfriend /ˈbɔɪ.frend/
- a man or boy that a person is having a romantic or sexual relationship with: 
    He's not my boyfriend - we're just good friends!
    Cathy's ex-boyfriend was a really nice guy.
- used to refer to a loose, comfortable style of clothing for women that is based on men's clothes: 
    a boyfriend jacket/blazer
    boyfriend jeans

proud /praʊd/
- feeling pleasure and satisfaction because you or people connected with you have done or got something good: 
    You must be very proud of your son.
    We're particularly proud of our company's environmental record.
    When she received her prize I think I was the proudest parent on the face of the earth.
    I'm very proud to have been involved in this project.
    I was so proud (that) my son had been chosen for the national team.
- having or showing respect for yourself: 
    We Albanians are a proud people.
    He might be poor but he's also proud, and he won't be pushed around by anyone.
- feeling that you are better and more important than other people: 
    Come on, admit you're wrong and don't be so proud.
    She knows she's lost, but she's too proud to admit it.
- sticking out from the surrounding area: 
    Sand the surface with abrasive paper until no flakes of paint stand proud of the surface.
idioms:
 do sb proud

agree /əˈɡriː/
- to have the same opinion: 
    Ann and I never seem to agree.
    I agree with you on this issue.
    My father and I don't agree about/on very much.
    I agree that he should be invited.
    Experts seem unable to agree whether the drug is safe or not.
    "You're absolutely right," agreed Jake.
- to decide something together: 
    They agreed not to tell anyone about what had happened.
    We couldn't agree on what to buy.
    We finally agreed a deal.
- to accept a suggestion or idea: 
    I suggested that we should meet, and they agreed (= said yes).
    The bank has agreed (= is willing) to lend me £5,000.
- If two or more statements, ideas, sets of numbers, etc. agree, they are the same or very similar: 
    We have five accounts of what happened and none of them agree.
- When two words agree, or one word agrees with another word, they have the same grammatical form. For example, the words may both be singular or plural, masculine or feminine, etc.
idioms:
 agree to differ
 couldn't agree more/less
 not agree with sb
phrasal verbs:
 agree to sth
 agree with sth
 agree with sb

birthday /ˈbɜːθ.deɪ/
- the day that is exactly a year or number of years after a person was born: 
    Happy birthday, Flavio!
    Are you going to Ellen's birthday party next week?
    It's her 21st birthday.
idioms:
 in your birthday suit

bill /bɪl/
- a request for payment of money owed, or the piece of paper on which it is written: 
    an electricity/gas/phone bill
    They sent us a bill for the work they had done.
    She ran up (= caused herself to have) a huge phone bill.
    They asked the waitress for the bill.
    Could we have the bill, please?
    Her mother agreed to foot (= pay) the bill.
- a formal statement of a planned new law that is discussed before being voted on: 
    The bill was amended (= changed).
    When a bill is passed in Parliament it becomes law.
    The bill was thrown out (= did not go past the first stage of discussion and will not become law).
- a piece of paper money: 
    a dollar/one-dollar bill
    a ten-dollar bill
- the beak of a bird
- a paper sign giving information about something, especially an event or performance
- to be performing in a show: 
    There were lots of big names (= famous people) on the bill.
- to be the most important actor in a show
- to give or send someone a bill asking for money that they owe for a product or service: 
    Please bill me for any expenses you incur.
- to advertise something with a particular description; to describe someone in a particular way in order to advertise them or make them known: 
    The movie was billed as a romantic comedy.
    The young author was billed as "the new Beckett."
- to list a person or performance on a programme of events : 
    She was billed to perform every night for a period of two weeks. 
- the police
idioms:
 fill/fit the bill

seven /ˈsev.ən/
- the number 7: 
    The restaurant opens for dinner at seven (o'clock).
    We're open seven days a week (= every day).

history /ˈhɪs.tər.i/
- (the study of or a record of) past events considered together, especially events of a particular period, country, or subject: 
    I studied modern European history at college.
    American history
    Annie's decided to write a history of electronic music.
    I only asked him for a cigarette, but two hours later he'd told me his whole life history.
- something that happened or ended a long time ago and is not important now, or a person who is not important now, although they were in the past: 
    Last year's report is ancient history and totally irrelevant to the current situation.
    "What about Dan - are you still seeing him?" "Oh, he's history."
- something that has been done or experienced by a particular person or thing repeatedly over a long period: 
    Her family has a history of heart problems.
    There's a long history of industrial disputes at the factory.
    He has a good credit history (= a good record of paying money that he owes).
idioms:
 make history

share /ʃeər/
- to have or use something at the same time as someone else: 
    She's very possessive about her toys and finds it hard to share.
    Bill and I shared an office for years.
    I share a house with four other people.
- to divide food, money, goods, etc. and give part of it to someone else: 
    Will you share your sandwich with me?
    Let's share the sweets (out) among/between everyone.
    We should share (in) the reward.
- If two or more people share an activity, they each do some of it: 
    Shall we share the driving?
    We shared the preparation for the party between us, so it wasn't too much work.
- If two or more people or things share a feeling, quality, or experience, they both or all have the same feeling, quality, or experience: 
    We share an interest in sailing.
    All hospitals share some common characteristics.
    I don't share your views/beliefs.
    The management and the union both share in the responsibility for the crisis.
    She knew that he was the person she wanted to share her life with.
- to tell someone else about your thoughts, feelings, ideas, etc.: 
    He's not very good at sharing his worries.
    It's nice to have someone you can share your problems with.
    Come on, Bob, share the joke (with us).
- to put something on a social media website so that other people can see it, or to let other people see something that someone else has put on a website : 
    You might even recommend an article to other readers or share it on Facebook.
- a part of something that has been divided between several people: 
    The total bill comes to €80, so our share is €20.
    We ought to make sure that everyone gets equal shares of the food.
    His share of the vote rose by 15 percentage points among Hispanics.
- a part of something that several people are involved in: 
    She's not doing her share of the work.
    We must all accept some share of the responsibility.
- one of the equal parts that the ownership of a company is divided into, and that can be bought by members of the public: 
    The value of my shares has risen/fallen by eight percent.
    We have some shares in Apple.
    He invests in stocks and shares.
    share prices
- an occasion when someone shares something on a social media website: 
    Her post has had over a thousand shares on Facebook.
idioms:
 a problem shared is a problem halved
 share and share alike
 go shares
 have your (fair) share of sth

offer /ˈɒf.ər/
- to ask someone if they would like to have something or if they would like you to do something: 
    I feel bad that I didn't offer them any food/offer any food to them.
    She was offered a job in Paris.
    Can I offer you (= would you like) a drink?
    "Would you sell me that painting?" "What are you offering (= what will you pay) for it?"
    My father offered to take us to the airport.
    "I'll do the cooking," he offered.
- to say a prayer or make a sacrifice (= an act of killing or giving up something) to a god: 
    Dear Lord, we offer up our prayers...
- to provide or supply something: 
    It's an organization that offers free legal advice to people on low incomes.
    It says in the guide that this area offers some of the best walks in England.
    We are now offering you the chance to buy the complete set of pans at half price.
    Did he offer any explanation for his strange behaviour?
    It doesn't have much to offer as a town - its shops are fairly poor and there's only one cinema.
- the act of asking if someone would like to have something or if they would like you to do something: 
    "If you like I can help out." "That's a very kind offer."
    I must say the offer of two weeks in Hawaii is very tempting.
    One day I'll take you up on (= accept) that offer.
- to say officially that you would like to buy something, especially a house, at a particular price: 
    They were asking €180,000 for the apartment, so I put in an offer of €170,000.
    I've made an offer on a house in Pine Banks.
- a reduction in the usual price of sth, usually for a short period: 
    Don't miss out on our latest offer.
- available to be bought or used: 
    We were amazed at the range of products on offer.
- If goods in a shop are on (special) offer, they are being sold at a lower price than usual.
- If a house is under offer, someone has already suggested a particular price at which they would be willing to buy it.

hurry /ˈhʌr.i/
- to move or do things more quickly than normal or to make someone do this: 
    Hurry or you'll be late.
    She hurried to answer the phone.
    I refuse to be hurried into a decision (= to be forced to make a decision too quickly).
    After spending her lunch hour shopping, she hurried back (= returned quickly) to work.
    I hate to hurry you, but I have to leave in a few minutes.
    Don't hurry your food (= don't eat it too quickly).
- the need to move or do things more quickly than normal: 
    We left in such a hurry that we forgot our tickets.
    "Can you wait a few minutes?" "Yes, I'm not in any hurry/I'm in no hurry (= I can wait)."
    Are you in a hurry (= wanting) to leave?
    What's (all) the hurry (for)/Why (all) the hurry? (= Why are you acting or moving so quickly?)
    "I'll let you have this back next week." "That's all right, there's no (great) hurry/there isn't any (great) hurry (= no need to do it quickly)."
phrasal verbs:
 hurry (sb/sth) up

feet /fiːt/
- plural of
foot 

wonder /ˈwʌn.dər/
- to ask yourself questions or express a wish to know about something: 
    Shouldn't you phone home? Your parents will be wondering where you are.
    He's starting to wonder whether he did the right thing in accepting this job.
    Will this turkey be big enough for eight, I wonder?
    "Have you decided where you're going next summer?" "I've been wondering about (= considering) going to Florida."
- used in phrases, at the beginning of a request, to make it more formal and polite: 
    We were wondering if/whether you'd like to have dinner with us some time?
    I wonder whether you could pass me the butter?
    I wonder if you could give me some information about places to visit in the area?
- to feel or express great surprise at something: 
    I don't wonder (that) she burst into tears after the way you spoke to her.
- a feeling of great surprise and admiration caused by seeing or experiencing something that is strange and new: 
    The sight of the Grand Canyon stretching out before them filled them with wonder.
    The boys gazed in wonder at the shiny red Ferrari.
- an object that causes a feeling of great surprise and admiration: 
    We spent a week visiting the wonders of Ancient Greek civilization.
    With all the wonders of modern technology, why has no one come up with a way to make aircraft quieter?
- an extremely useful or skilful person: 
    Our new babysitter's a wonder - she'll come at very short notice and the kids love her.
idioms:
 work/do wonders
 it's a wonder
 little/small wonder
 no wonder
 wonders never cease
 I shouldn't wonder

simple /ˈsɪm.pəl/
- easy to understand or do; not difficult: 
    The instructions were written in simple English.
    It's simple to find our house.
    I want an explanation, but keep/make it simple.
- used to describe the one important fact, truth, etc.: 
    We didn't go swimming for the simple reason that the water was too cold.
- without decoration; plain: 
    I like simple food better than fancy dishes.
- having or made of only one or a few parts: 
    A hammer is a simple tool.
    Simple forms of life have only one cell.
- ordinary; traditional or natural rather than modern and complicated: 
    He was just a simple fisherman.
- A simple person does not have a normal level of intelligence: 
    He was simple, but harmless.

decision /dɪˈsɪʒ.ən/
- a choice that you make about something after thinking about several possibilities: 
    She has had to make some very difficult decisions.
    The company will reach/come to/make a decision shortly.
    Let me have a/your decision (= tell me what you have decided) by next week.
    It was his decision to leave.
    The decision about/on whether he is innocent or guilty rests with the jury.
    We need to take a lot of factors into account in our decision-making.
    I accepted his decision that he wished to die with dignity.
- the ability to decide quickly and without pausing because you are not certain: 
    She acted with decision, closing the bank account and calling the police.

building /ˈbɪl.dɪŋ/
- a structure with walls and a roof, such as a house or factory: 
    The once-empty site was now covered with buildings.
- the process or business of making structures such as houses or factories: 
    building costs
    He started off in the building trade before opening his own restaurant.

finish /ˈfɪn.ɪʃ/
- to complete something or come to the end of an activity: 
    I'll call you when I've finished my homework.
    Please place your questionnaire in the box when you're finished.
    She finished (the concert) with a song from her first album.
    She finished second (= in second place) in the finals.
    Have you finished reading that magazine?
    They've already run out of money and the building isn't even half-finished (= half of it has not been completed).
- to end: 
    The meeting should finish around four o'clock.
    The play finishes with a wedding.
- to eat, drink, or use something completely so that none remains: 
    Make sure she finishes her dinner.
    He finished his drink and left.
    We finished (= ate all of) the pie last night.
- If you finish something made of wood, you give it a last covering of paint, polish, or varnish so that it is ready to be used.
- the end of a race, or the last part of something: 
    a close finish
    They replayed the finish in slow motion.
- the condition of the surface of a material such as wood: 
    Look at the beautiful shiny finish on that piano.
- the last covering of varnish, polish, or paint, that is put onto something: 
    Even a clear finish will alter the colour of wood slightly.
idioms:
 put the finishing touches to
phrasal verbs:
 finish sth off
 finish sb/sth off
 finish sb off
 finish up
 finish (sth) up
 finish with sth
 finish with sb

voice /vɔɪs/
- the sounds that are made when people speak or sing: 
    She has a loud/quiet/soft voice.
    a low-pitched/high-pitched voice
    a booming/breathy/clear/deep/fruity/gravelly/husky/squeaky voice
    a baritone/soprano singing voice
    You could tell from her voice that she wasn't pleased.
    "I don't know what you mean," said Fran in a quavering voice.
    She lowered her voice to a whisper.
    You'll have to raise your voice (= speak louder) if you want to be heard in here.
    I have a cold and I think I'm losing my voice (= becoming unable to speak).
    He's at that age when his voice is breaking (= changing from a boy's to a man's).
    She's done a lot of work with voice-activated computers.
- to be singing well: 
    The choir seems to be in good voice today!
- an expression of opinion, or the right to express your opinion: 
    There was only one dissenting voice during the discussion.
    Unfortunately a strike was the only way to make our voices heard.
    The committee represents the voice of the students.
    Developing countries are demanding a stronger voice (= right to express opinions) in the debate.
    Millions of women sit in silence and loneliness. Give them a voice, please.
    Members themselves say being part of a national union gives them a voice to fight for their rights.
- an important quality or opinion that someone expresses, or the person who is able to express it: 
    She just won't listen to the voice of reason.
    I wouldn't work for Peter if I were you - this is the voice of experience talking!
- the relationship between the subject of the verb and the action described by the verb, or the forms of a verb that show this relationship: 
    the active/passive voice
- to say what you think about a particular subject, especially to express a doubt, complaint, etc. that you have about it: 
    I have voiced my objections to the plan to management.
- to produce a sound by making the vocal cords move very quickly several times
idioms:
 give voice to sth
 voice within you
 with one voice

herself /hɜːˈself/
- used to refer to a female object of a verb, that is the same person or animal as the subject of the verb: 
    She kept telling herself that nothing was wrong.
    My mother would worry herself to death if she knew what I was doing.
- used to emphasize a particular woman, girl, or female animal: 
    She decorated the cake herself.
    She herself admitted that it was wrong.
- If a woman or girl does something by herself, she does it alone or without help from anyone else: 
    She lives by herself in an enormous house.
    Holly's only three but she wrote her name all by herself.
- for her use only: 
    Mum's got the house to herself this weekend.
- not to be, seem, or feel as happy or healthy as usual: 
    Is Michelle all right? She doesn't seem quite herself at the moment.
- used when describing or asking about a woman's state of mind when she is physically ill: 
    I know she's got back trouble but how is she in herself?
idioms:
 keep (herself) to herself

would strong /wʊd/
- used to refer to future time from the point of view of the past: 
    He said he would see his brother tomorrow.
    They knew there would be trouble unless the report was finished by the next day.
    We realized it wouldn't be easy to find another secretary.
- used to refer back to a time in the past from a point of view in the future: 
    We thought they would have got home by five o'clock, but there was no reply when we phoned.
- used to refer to an intention from the point of view of the past: 
    He said he would always love her .
    They promised that they would help.
    There was nobody left who would (= was willing to) do it.
    I asked him to move his car but he said he wouldn't (= he refused).
- used to refer to a situation that you can imagine happening: 
    I would hate to miss the show.
    I'd go myself but I'm too busy.
    It would have been very boring to sit through the whole speech.
- used with if in conditional sentences (= sentences that refer to what happens if something else happens): 
    What would you do if you lost your job?
    If I'd had time, I would have gone to see Graham.
- used in polite requests and offers: 
    Would you mind sharing a room?
    Would you like me to come with you?
    Would you like some cake?
- past simple of
will : used to talk about what someone was willing to do or what something was able to do: 
    The car wouldn't start this morning.
- used to show that you prefer to have or do one thing more than another: 
    I'd rather have a beer.
    Which would you sooner do - go swimming or play tennis?
    Wouldn't you rather finish it tomorrow?
    He'd rather die than (= he certainly does not want to) let me think he needed help.
- used to express a strong wish or desire: 
    Would that (= if only) she could see her famous son now.
- used to talk about things in the past that happened often or always: 
    He would always turn and wave at the end of the street.
- used to suggest that what happens is expected because it is typical, especially of a person's behaviour: 
    "Madeleine called to say she's too busy to come." "She would - she always has an excuse."
- used to express an opinion in a polite way without being forceful: 
    I would think we need to speak to the headteacher about this first.
    It's not what we would have expected from a professional service.
- used after "I" when giving advice: 
    I wouldn't (= I advise you not to) worry about it, if I were you.
- used after "why" when giving or asking the reason for something: 
    Why would anyone want to eat something so horrible?
- used to refer to what is very likely: 
    "The guy on the phone had a Southern accent." "That would be Tom."

list /lɪst/
- a record of short pieces of information, such as people's names, usually written or printed with a single thing on each line and often ordered in a way that makes a particular thing easy to find: 
    a shopping list
    Is your name on the list?
    I've made a list of places I'd like to visit while we're in Paris.
- If a ship has a list, it leans to one side.
- to make a list, or to include something in a list: 
    I've listed some useful reading material on the handout.
- (of a ship) to lean to one side, especially as a result of damage: 
    The tanker is listing badly and liable to sink at any moment.
- to make a company's shares available on a particular financial market: 
    Last year, eight new companies were listed on the Lahore stock exchange.
idioms:
 a list as long as your arm

mess /mes/
- Something or someone that is a mess, or is in a mess, looks dirty or untidy: 
    He makes a terrible mess when he's cooking.
    Jem's house is always in a mess.
    Go and clean up that mess in the kitchen.
    Freddy can't stand mess.
    I look a mess - I can't go out like this!
    My hair's such a mess today!
- an animal's solid waste: 
    Fido left another mess on the carpet.
- a situation that is full of problems: 
    She said that her life was a mess.
    I got myself into a mess by telling a lie.
    The company's finances are in a mess.
- a person whose life is full of problems they cannot deal with: 
    After the divorce he was a real mess and started drinking too much.
- to do something badly or spoil something: 
    I made a real mess of my final exams.
- a room or building in which members of the armed forces have their meals or spend their free time: 
    The captain was having breakfast in the mess hall.
    They spent their evenings in the officers' mess, drinking and playing cards.
- a large public room where people have their meals
- to make something untidy: 
    Don't you dare mess my hair!
- to leave solid waste somewhere: 
    The neighbour's dog has messed on our lawn again!
idioms:
 (and) no messing
phrasal verbs:
 mess around
 mess sb about/around
 mess around with sth
 mess around (with sb)
 mess sth up
 mess (sth) up
 mess sb up
 mess with sth/sb
 mess with sth
 mess with sb

deserve /dɪˈzɜːv/
- to have earned or to be given something because of the way you have behaved or the qualities you have: 
    After all that hard work, you deserve a holiday.
    Chris deserves our special thanks for all his efforts.
    I hope they get the punishment they deserve.
    They certainly deserved to win that game.
idioms:
 sb deserves a medal
 he/she deserves whatever/everything he/she gets

cute /kjuːt/
- (especially of something or someone small or young) pleasant and attractive: 
    His baby brother is really cute.
- trying to be clever, sometimes in a rude or unpleasant way: 
    Don't be cute with me, Vicki.

dress /dres/
- a piece of clothing for women or girls that covers the top half of the body and hangs down over the legs: 
    a long/short dress
    a wedding dress
- used, especially in combination, to refer to clothes of a particular type, especially those worn in particular situations: 
    The king, in full ceremonial dress, presided over the ceremony.
- to put clothes on yourself or someone else, especially a child: 
    My husband dresses the boys while I make breakfast.
    He left very early and had to dress in the dark.
- to wear a particular type of clothes: 
    I have to dress in a suit and tie for work.
    Patricia always dresses in black (= wears black clothes).
- to put on formal clothes for a meal: 
    It's the type of hotel where you're expected to dress for dinner.
- to add a liquid, especially a mixture of oil and vinegar, to a salad for extra flavour: 
    a dressed salad
- to prepare meat, chicken, fish, or crab so it can be eaten: 
    a whole dressed crab
- to treat an injury by cleaning it and putting medicine or a covering on it to protect it: 
    Clean and dress the wound immediately.
- to decorate a shop window, usually with an arrangement of goods: 
    They're dressing the store's windows for Christmas.
- used to refer to men's suits, shirts, or other clothes of the type that are worn at formal occasions: 
    a white dress shirt and bow tie
phrasal verbs:
 dress down
 dress up
 dress sth up

interesting /ˈɪn.trəs.tɪŋ/
- Someone or something that is interesting keeps your attention because he, she, or it is unusual, exciting, or has a lot of ideas: 
    She's quite an interesting woman.
    She's got some very interesting things to say on the subject.
    It is always interesting to hear other people's point of view.
    Oh, I didn't know they were married - that's interesting.
- strange or different: 
    That's an interesting looking hat you're wearing, Neil!

Jesus Christ /ˌdʒiː.zəs ˈkraɪst/
- the man believed by his religious followers to be the son of God. Christianity is based on his life and teachings.
- an expression of surprise, shock, or anger. Some people might consider this use offensive: 
    Jesus, just look what a mess they've made!

hotel /həʊˈtel/
- a building where you pay to have a room to sleep in, and where you can sometimes eat meals: 
    a four-star hotel
    the Clarendon Hotel
    We stayed in/at a hotel on the beach.
    hotel guests
- a building where alcoholic drinks can be bought and drunk and where food is often available
- a restaurant

enjoy /ɪnˈdʒɔɪ/
- to get pleasure from something: 
    I really enjoyed that movie/book/concert/party/meal.
    I want to travel because I enjoy meeting people and seeing new places.
- to get pleasure from the situation that you are in: 
    I don't think Marie is enjoying herself very much at school.
    Come on, why aren't you dancing? Enjoy yourselves!
- something you say to someone when you have given that person something and you want them to enjoy it: 
    Here are your drinks. Enjoy!
- to have something good or lucky: 
    Even though he's 86, he enjoys excellent health.

quiet /ˈkwaɪ.ət/
- making very little noise: 
    She spoke in a quiet voice so as not to wake him.
    It's so quiet without the kids here.
    Please be quiet (= stop talking)!
    Could you keep quiet while I'm on the phone, please?
    She was as quiet as a mouse (= very quiet). I didn't even know she'd come in.
- having little activity or excitement and few people: 
    a quiet, peaceful little village
    It was a quiet wedding, with just a few friends and relations.
    Business is quiet during the holidays.
- A quiet person is one who does not talk much: 
    He was a quiet, almost taciturn, young man.
- to try to stop other people from finding out about a fact: 
    She managed to keep the operation quiet for a while.
    Davies kept quiet about the amount of money being spent.
- the state of being silent: 
    Let's have some quiet!
    I go camping for some peace and quiet (= absence of activity and excitement).
- to (cause someone to) become calmer or less noisy: 
    The barking dogs quieted when they recognized me.
idioms:
 on the quiet

road /rəʊd/
- a long, hard surface built for vehicles to travel along: 
    We live on a busy/quiet road.
    Be careful when you cross a main road.
    There's a coffee shop on the other side of the road.
    The road from here to Adelaide runs/goes through some beautiful countryside.
    All roads into/out of the town were blocked by the snow.
    I hate flying so I go everywhere by road or rail.
    I live in/on Mill Road.
    My address is 82 Mill Road.
    Is this the Belfast road (= the road that goes to Belfast)?
    Most road accidents are caused by people driving too fast.
- If a vehicle is on the road, it is working as it should and can be legally used: 
    My car was in the garage for a week, but it's now back on the road.
- When you are on the road, you are driving or travelling, usually over a long distance: 
    After two days on the road, they reached the coast.
- If a group of actors or musicians are on the road, they are travelling to different places to perform: 
    Most rock groups spend two or three months a year on the road.
idioms:
 all roads lead to Rome
 be on the road to sth
 come to the end of the road
 get out of the road!
 one for the road
 road to Damascus
 the road to hell is paved with good intentions
 take to the road

eve /iːv/
- the period or day before an important event: 
    Mrs Clayton was speaking to Arab journalists in Paris on the eve of her visit to Egypt.
    Christmas/New Year's Eve
- the evening
- the first woman, according to the biblical story of how the world was made

short /ʃɔːt/
- small in length, distance, or height: 
    a short skirt
    Her hair is much shorter than it used to be.
    It's only a short walk to the station.
    I'm fairly short but my brother's very tall.
- used to say that a name is used as a shorter form of another name: 
    Her name's Jo - it's short for Josephine.
    Her name's Josephine, or Jo for short.
- being an amount of time that is less than average or usual: 
    a short film/visit
    He's grown so much in such a short time.
    I work much better if I take a short break every hour or so.
- Short books, letters, and other examples of writing do not contain many words and do not take much time to read: 
    It's a very short book - you'll read it in an hour.
- to not have enough of something: 
    to be short of space/time
    We're short on coffee - I'd better get some more.
    The bill comes to £85, but we're £15 short.
    I'm a little short (= I do not have much money) this week - could you lend me ten dollars?
- unable to breathe very well, for example because you have been running or doing some type of energetic exercise: 
    She's always short of breath when she climbs the stairs.
- to be few or not enough in number: 
    Free desks are in short supply in this office.
- to not have something, especially when it is something you need in order to live: 
    My parents didn't have much money, but they made sure we didn't go short (of anything).
- saying little but showing slight impatience or anger in the few words that you say: 
    I'm sorry if I was a bit short with you on the phone this morning.
- a drink of spirits (= type of strong alcohol) without water or any other liquid added: 
    She only drinks shorts, never wine or beer.
- a short film, especially one made for showing before the main film at a cinema
- informal for
short circuit 
- informal for
BROKEN! : 
    The plumber shorted the washing machine.
- before the arranged or expected time or place: 
    We wanted to explain the plans fully, but the chairman stopped us short, as there were other important matters to discuss.
- used with adjectives ending in -ed formed from nouns to describe something with a short part: 
    a short-haired dog (= a dog with short hair)
    a short-sleeved shirt (= a shirt with short sleeves)
idioms:
 be caught/taken short
 be short notice
 draw/get the short straw
 get the short end of the stick
 have (got) sb by the short and curlies
 have a short memory
 in short
 make short work of sth
 not be short of a bob or two
 short and sweet
 short sharp shock
 cut sth short

beat /biːt/
beat | beat | beaten or US also beat
- to defeat or do better than: 
    Simon always beats me at tennis.
    Holland beat Belgium (by) 3–1.
    The Miami Heat beat the Pacers 95-90/by five points. 
    Our team was comfortably/easily/soundly beaten in the first round of the competition.
    The Nationalists were narrowly beaten in the election.
    He beat me fair and square (= without cheating).
    They were beaten hands down (= completely) by their opponents.
    She has beaten her own record of three minutes ten seconds.
- to be better or more enjoyable than another activity or experience: 
    Taking the bus sure beats walking.
    Taking the bus beats the hell out of (= is much better than) walking all the way there.
    You can't beat (= there is nothing more enjoyable than) a cold beer on a hot afternoon.
- To beat something that is going to happen is to take action before the thing happens: 
    Let's try to beat the traffic by leaving early in the morning.
    I always do my shopping early to beat the rush.
- to do something before someone else does it: 
    I was just going to clean the kitchen, but you beat me to it.
- to hit repeatedly: 
    They saw him beating his dog with a stick.
    The child had been brutally/savagely beaten.
    She was beaten to death.
    He was beaten senseless.
    Beat the drum.
    The rain was beating down incessantly on the tin roof.
- to form a path in an area where long grass or bushes grow closely together, by hitting the plants with your hands or an object, or by stepping on them: 
    We beat a path through the undergrowth.
- to mix something repeatedly using a utensil such as a spoon or whisk: 
    To make an omelette you first beat the eggs.
- to (cause to) make a regular movement or sound: 
    The doctor could feel no pulse beating.
    Her heart started to beat faster.
    The hummingbird beats its wings at great speed.
- to make a regular sound or movement to music
- extremely tired: 
    I'm beat - I'm going to bed.
    You've been working too hard—you look dead beat.
- a regular movement or sound, especially that made by your heart: 
    I put my head on his chest but I could feel no heartbeat.
    My heart skipped a beat (= I felt very excited) when she said, "Yes, I'll marry you."
- in music, a regular emphasis, or a place in the music where such an emphasis is expected: 
    The guitar comes in on the third beat.
    Make sure you play on the beat.
    He tapped his foot to the beat (= rhythm) of the music.
- an area for which someone, such as a police officer, has responsibility as part of their job: 
    Bob has worked as an officer on this particular beat for 20 years.
- A police officer who is on/walking the beat is on duty, walking around rather than driving in a police car.
idioms:
 beat sb at their own game
 beat sb hollow
 beat sb's brains out
 beat your breast/chest
 beat a path to sb's door
 beat a retreat
 beat around the bush
 beat a dead horse
 beat it!
 beat the rap
 if you can't beat 'em, join 'em
 it beats me
 take some beating
 that beats everything
phrasal verbs:
 beat sb/sth back
 beat down
 beat sb down
 beat sb off
 beat off
 beat sth out
 beat sb out
 beat sth out of sb
 beat sb up
 beat yourself up
 beat up on sb

mention /ˈmen.ʃən/
- to speak about something quickly, giving little detail or using few words: 
    I'll mention your ideas to Jacinta.
    He casually mentioned (that) he was leaving his job.
    My wife mentioned seeing you the other day.
    Did she happen to mention whether she would be coming?
- to refer to something or someone: 
    I promised never to mention the incident again.
    Did she mention me in her letter?
- a short remark or written statement: 
    The story didn't even get a mention in the newspaper.
    When I ordered the catalogue, there was no mention of any payment.
- an occasion when something or someone is mentioned: 
    Even the mention of her name makes him blush.
- an occasion when a person is publicly praised for having done something, such as their job, extremely well: 
    At the awards ceremony, Chrissie Scott got/received a special mention for her reporting on the conflict.
idioms:
 don't mention it!
 not to mention

clothe /kləʊð/
- to provide someone with clothes: 
    It costs a lot to feed and clothe five children.

neither /ˈnaɪ.ðər/
- not either of two things or people: 
    We've got two TVs, but neither works properly.
    Neither of my parents likes my boyfriend.
    Neither one of us is interested in gardening.
    "Which one would you choose?" "Neither. They're both terrible."
    If she doesn't agree to the plan, neither will Tom (= he will also not).
    Chris wasn't at the meeting and neither was her assistant.
    "I don't feel like going out this evening." "Me neither."
    On two occasions she was accused of stealing money from the company, but in neither case was there any evidence to support the claims.
- used when you want to say that two or more things are not true: 
    Neither my mother nor my father went to university.
    They speak neither French nor German, but a strange mixture of the two.
    I neither know nor care what happened to him.
idioms:
 be neither here nor there
 be neither one thing nor the other

fix /fɪks/
- to repair something: 
    They couldn't fix my old computer, so I bought a new one.
- to arrange or agree a time, place, price, etc.: 
    Shall we fix a time for our next meeting?
    I understand the rent is fixed at £750 a month.
- to fasten something in position so that it cannot move: 
    We fixed the bookcase to the wall.
- to keep something or someone in sight: 
    His eyes were fixed on the distant yacht.
    She fixed the child with a stare of such disapproval he did not dare move.
- to continue to think about or remember something: 
    It is somehow fixed in my mind that my fate and that woman's are intertwined.
    She was so frightened that she could not fix her thoughts on anything.
- to do something dishonest to make certain that a competition, race, or election is won by a particular person: 
    Several jockeys were arrested on suspicion of fixing the race.
    It sounds like the election was fixed.
- to make your hair, make-up, clothes, etc. look tidy: 
    Give me a couple of minutes while I fix my hair.
- to cook or prepare food or drink: 
    Whose turn is it to fix dinner?
    Can I fix you a drink?/Can I fix a drink for you?
- to be planning to do something: 
    I'm fixing to leave pretty soon.
- to punish especially someone who has been unfair: 
    I'm gonna fix her if she doesn't stop telling lies about me!
- to treat something, especially photographic material, with chemicals to prevent its colours becoming pale
- to remove the reproductive organs of an animal so that it is unable to produce young animals
- to inject (= put into the body through a needle) an illegal drug: 
    We saw kids as young as twelve fixing in doorways.
- a situation in which someone does something dishonest to make certain that a competition, race, or election is won by a particular person: 
    The result was a fix!
- an awkward or difficult situation: 
    I'm in a bit of a fix with the arrangements.
- a solution to a problem: 
    She says the problem is not a new one, and the fix would be easy enough for a government to achieve, if it were willing.
    There is no quick fix to the organization's problems. 
- an amount of an illegal drug, or of another substance that has an effect on someone: 
    He was shaking badly and needed a fix.
    Ginny needs her daily fix of chocolate.
- (the calculation of) the position of a vehicle, usually in relation to the earth: 
    Do we still have a fix on that jet?
phrasal verbs:
 fix sth up
 fix sb up

respect /rɪˈspekt/
- admiration felt or shown for someone or something that you believe has good ideas or qualities: 
    I have great/the greatest respect for his ideas, although I don't agree with them.
    She is a formidable figure who commands a great deal of respect (= who is greatly admired by others).
    New teachers have to earn/gain the respect of their students.
- politeness, honour, and care shown towards someone or something that is considered important: 
    You really should treat your parents with more respect.
    She has no respect for other people's property (= she does not treat it carefully).
- a feeling that something is right or important and you should not attempt to change it or harm it: 
    In their senseless killing of innocent people, the terrorists have shown their lack of respect for human life.
    She grumbled that young people today have/show no respect for the law.
- the feeling you show when you accept that different customs or cultures are different from your own and behave towards them in a way that would not cause offence: 
    She teaches the students to have respect for different races and appreciate the diversity of other cultures.
- polite formal greetings: 
    Please convey/give my respects to your parents.
- a particular feature or detail: 
    This proposal differs from the last one in many important respects/one important respect.
    In most respects, the new film is better than the original.
- to feel or show admiration for someone or something that you believe has good ideas or qualities: 
    I deeply respect David for what he has achieved.
- to be proud of your own qualities or achievements
- to treat something or someone with kindness and care: 
    to respect someone's feelings
    We should respect the environment and not pollute it.
- to accept the importance of someone's rights or customs and to do nothing that would harm them or cause offence: 
    The agreement will respect the rights of both nations.
    I would appreciate it if you would respect my privacy.
- to accept that something is right or important and not to attempt to change it or harm it: 
    The president pledged to respect the existing frontiers between the two countries.
- to think that it is important to obey a law or rule: 
    I was always taught to respect the law.
- to do what someone has asked to have done: 
    His children respected his last wishes and held a simple funeral for him.
idioms:
 in respect of sth
 pay your respects
 with (all due) respect

spent /spent/
- past simple and past participle of spend
- Something that is spent has been used so that it no longer has any power or effectiveness: 
    spent bullets/matches
    After several defeats in a row, people are starting to say that the team is a spent force.
- tired: 
    We arrived home spent after our long journey.

prison /ˈprɪz.ən/
- a building where criminals are forced to live as a punishment: 
    Conditions in the prison are said to be appalling.
    He's spent a lot of time in prison.
    She went to/was sent to prison for six months.
    It was a maximum-security prison (= intended to be especially difficult to escape from).
    They should put him in prison and throw away the key!
    a prison cell/sentence/guard
- the system of keeping people in prisons: 
    the prison system
    Do you think prison works?
    Prison (= the time he had spent in prison) hadn't changed him at all.
- a situation or relationship from which it is difficult to escape: 
    She felt that her marriage had become a prison.

attention /əˈten.ʃən/
- notice, thought, or interest: 
    Ladies and gentlemen, could I have your attention, please?
    They're organizing a campaign to draw people's attention to the environmentally harmful effects of using their cars.
    Wait a moment and I'll give you my full/undivided attention (= I'll listen to and think about only you).
    After an hour, my attention started to wander (= I stopped taking notice).
- to make someone notice you: 
    I knocked on the window to get her attention.
- to watch, listen to, or think about something or someone carefully or with interest: 
    If you don't pay attention now, you'll get it all wrong later.
    Don't pay any attention to Nina - she doesn't know what she's talking about.
    He wasn't paying attention to the safety instructions.
- the thing or person that a lot of people notice: 
    He likes telling jokes and being the centre of attention at parties.
- to start to think about or consider a particular thing or person: 
    Many countries are starting to turn their attention to new forms of energy.
- special care or treatment: 
    The paintwork will need a little attention.
    If symptoms persist, seek medical attention.
- (especially in the armed forces) a way of standing, with the feet together, arms by your sides, head up, and shoulders back, and not moving: 
    soldiers standing at/to attention

near /nɪər/
- not far away in distance: 
    Is there a restaurant near here?
    I'd like to sit near a window, please.
    Don't come too near me - you might catch my cold.
    The hotel is near the airport.
    Which bus stop is nearest (to) your house?
    I was standing just near enough to hear what they were saying.
- not far away in time: 
    As the date of his operation drew near, he became more and more anxious.
    We can decide which route to take nearer the time.
- almost in a particular state, or condition: 
    The runners looked near exhaustion.
    I was near (to) tears (= almost cried) at one point during the film.
- not close in distance, time, amount, or quality: 
    The house was nowhere near the beach.
    It's nowhere near time for us to leave yet.
    I'm nowhere near finishing the book - I'm only half-way through it.
    He's nowhere near as tall as his sister.
- almost: 
    They're the same age or near enough.
- not far away in distance, time, characteristics, or quality: 
    Where's the nearest post office?
    My pocket knife is the nearest thing (= the most similar thing) to a weapon that I have.
    I couldn't get any cream cheese so I bought the nearest equivalent (= the most similar thing) that I could find.
- Your near relatives are people who are closely related to you, such as your parents, brothers, or sisters.
- at a time that is not far away: 
    All our computer equipment will be replaced in the near future.
- to get close to something in distance, time, or state: 
    I'm pleased to say the project is nearing completion.
    As the wedding day neared, I started to have second thoughts about getting married.
    The captain switched on the seat belt sign as we neared the airport.
- combines with adjectives and nouns to mean "almost": 
    We had a near-disaster this morning in the car!
    She was near-hysterical by the time I arrived there.
idioms:
 near at hand
 your nearest and dearest

bar /bɑːr/
- a place where drinks, especially alcoholic drinks, are sold and drunk, or the area in such a place where the person serving the drinks stands: 
    They noticed him going into the hotel bar.
    There weren't any free tables, so I sat at the bar.
    Why don't you ask the guy behind the bar (= serving drinks there)?
- a long, thin, straight piece of metal or wood: 
    The gorilla rattled the bars of its cage.
- a substance that has been made into a solid rectangular shape: 
    a bar of soap
    a chocolate bar
- The bar of an electric heater is a long, thin wire in the shape of a spring that is wrapped tightly around a tube. When electricity passes through it, it produces heat and red light.
- one of the small equal parts into which a piece of music is divided, containing a fixed number of beats: 
    Waltzes have three beats in/to the bar (= in each bar).
- a vertical line that divides one bar from another in a written piece of music
- a 
stripe 
- something that prevents a particular event or development from happening: 
    A lack of formal education is no bar to becoming rich.
- to prevent something or someone from doing something or going somewhere, or to not allow something: 
    The centre of the town was barred to football supporters.
    The incident led to him being barred from the country/barred from entering the country.
    I tried to push past her but she barred my way/path (= stood in front of me and prevented me from getting past).
- to put bars across something, especially to keep it closed: 
    We barred the door to stop anyone getting into the room.
- except: 
    Everyone is leaving the village, bar the very old and ill.
    They're the best songwriters of this century, bar none (= no one else is better).
- lawyers who are allowed to argue a case in a higher court
- all lawyers thought of as a group
- to gain a qualification as a lawyer who can argue a case in a higher court
- to gain a qualification as a lawyer
idioms:
 behind bars
 be (all) over bar the shouting

pass /pɑːs/
- to go past something or someone or move in relation to it, him, or her: 
    I passed him on the stairs this morning.
    You should only pass a slower vehicle if it is safe to do so.
    If you pass a supermarket, could you get me some milk?
    I was just passing by (= going past the place where you are), so I thought I'd drop in for a chat.
    A momentary look of anxiety passed across his face.
    A cloud passed over the sun.
- to go past a particular point in time: 
    Don't buy goods that have passed their sell-by date.
- to go past something by being greater in amount or degree: 
    The company's turnover is expected to pass the $10 million mark by the end of this year.
- If you say a state or feeling will pass, you mean it will disappear: 
    Don't worry, his depression is only temporary - it'll soon pass.
- to be successful in an exam, course, etc.: 
    Guess what? I've passed my driving test!
    The exam is so hard that only five percent of all applicants pass.
- to give something to someone: 
    Could you pass the salt please?
    I asked if I could see the letter, so she passed it to me reluctantly.
    Gerald passed me the note./Gerald passed the note to me.
    Genes are the means by which parents' characteristics are passed on to their children.
- In sports, if you pass the ball, you kick, throw, or hit it to someone in your team.
- If you pass money, you give someone false or stolen money without telling them: 
    I haven't trusted him since he passed me a forged $100 bill.
    She was arrested for passing stolen cheques.
- When time passes, it goes past: 
    Time seems to pass (by) so slowly when you're bored.
    I was a little worried about the party, but the evening passed without any great disasters.
- If you pass a period of time, you do something to stop yourself being bored during that period: 
    The visitors pass their days swimming, windsurfing, and playing volleyball.
- (of an official group of people) to give approval to something, especially by voting to make it law: 
    The government passed a law to restrict the sale of guns.
    The food supplement had been passed as safe for human consumption.
- to express a judgment or opinion about something, especially someone else's behaviour: 
    As a convicted criminal, he's in no position to pass judgment (on the rest of us).
- to say officially, as a judge, what a criminal's official punishment will be
- to die: 
    After she passed, the doctors wanted to do an autopsy.
    His wife was at his side when he passed peacefully this morning.
- to remove waste from the body: 
    to pass urine
- to have blood in your urine or faeces (= solid waste): 
    If you pass blood, you should go and see your doctor.
- to choose not to play in a part of a game or not to answer a question in a quiz
- to change from one state to another: 
    Wax passes from solid to liquid when you heat it.
- a successful result in an exam: 
    Jon Hill achieved two grade A passes at A-level.
- a successful result in a course or exam for which the student will not be given a mark: 
    I got a pass in my Literature course.
- a movement of the ball from one player to another member of the same team in a team sport
- an official document or ticket showing that you have the right to go somewhere or use a particular form of transport: 
    a bus pass
    a boarding pass
    My guest pass allows me to use the club's facilities free of charge.
- a document that allows a student to leave a class for a particular reason: 
    She had a pass to go to the library.
- a path or road between or over mountains: 
    a mountain pass
- a difficult or unpleasant condition: 
    If I'd been aware things had reached such a pass, I'd have told the police.
    It's come to a pretty pass (= it's a bad situation) when you can't even have a few quiet drinks with some friends.
- to speak to or touch someone in a way that shows you would like to start a sexual relationship with them
idioms:
 pass (all) belief
 pass muster
 pass the hat around/round
 pass the time of day
 pass water
phrasal verbs:
 pass sth around
 pass as/for sth/sb
 pass away
 pass sb by
 pass sth down
 pass off
 pass sth off as sth
 pass on
 pass on sth
 pass sth on
 pass out
 pass sth out
 pass sb/sth over
 pass sth round
 pass sth up

gift /ɡɪft/
- a present or something that is given: 
    a birthday/wedding gift
    The guests all arrived bearing (= bringing) gifts.
- something that is surprisingly easy or cheap: 
    That goal was a gift!
    £100 for a good leather coat? It's a gift!
- a special ability to do something: 
    He has a gift for languages.
- to give something in an official or formal way: 
    The child's grandmother had gifted her £10,000.
- to make it easy for an opponent to score, win, or be successful: 
    She hit the ball into the net, almost gifting the set to her opponent.
idioms:
 a gift from the gods
 the gift of the gab
 in sb's gift/in the gift of sb

dark /dɑːk/
- with little or no light: 
    It was too dark to see much.
    What time does it get dark in the summer?
    Our bedroom was very dark until we put a larger window in.
- nearer to black than white in colour: 
    dark blue/green
    dark clouds
    She has dark hair.
    He was tall, dark (= with black/brown hair) and handsome.
- sad and without hope: 
    Her husband's sudden death was the start of a dark chapter in her life.
    This environmental report contains more dark predictions about the future of the earth.
- evil or threatening: 
    There's a darker side to his character.
- secret or hidden: 
    I've just been promoted, but keep it dark - I don't want everyone to know just yet.
- the fact of there being no light somewhere: 
    Cats can see in the dark.
    I've always been afraid of the dark.
- before/after the sun has gone down: 
    It isn't safe to leave the house after dark.
    I want to be home before dark.
idioms:
 the darkest hour is just before the dawn
 go dark
 be in the dark

self /self/
- the set of someone's characteristics, such as personality and ability, that are not physical and make that person different from other people: 
    The hero of the movie finally finds his true self (= discovers what his true personality and feelings are).
    When I saw them this afternoon they were more like their old/normal selves (= as they were in the past).
    a sense of self
- interest only in your own advantage: 
    Her reply was typical of her constant regard for self.
- of or by yourself or itself: 
    self-educated
    a self-winding watch
idioms:
 unto thine own self be true

normal /ˈnɔː.məl/
- ordinary or usual; the same as would be expected: 
    a normal working day
    Lively behaviour is normal for a four-year-old child.
    It's normal for couples to argue now and then.
    They were selling the goods at half the normal cost.
    The temperature was above/below normal for the time of year.
    Things are back to normal now that we've paid off all our debts.

aunt /ɑːnt/
- the sister of someone's father or mother, or the wife of someone's uncle or aunt: 
    I have an aunt in Australia.
    This is my Aunt Camille.
    Do you want some tea, Aunt Alice?

dollar /ˈdɒl.ər/
- the standard unit of money used in the US, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, and other countries: 
    Can I borrow $10?
    There are one hundred cents in a dollar.
    You can pay in euros or in US dollars.
    The suitcase was full of dollar bills.
- the value of the US dollar, used in comparing the values of different types of money from around the world: 
    In the financial markets today, the dollar rose against/fell against (= was worth more than/less than) the pound.
idioms:
 top dollar

lawyer /ˈlɔɪ.ər/
- someone whose job is to give advice to people about the law and speak for them in court: 
    I want to see my lawyer before I say anything.

apart /əˈpɑːt/
- separated by a distance or by time: 
    Stand with your feet wide apart.
    How far apart should the speakers be?
    We were asked to stand in two lines three metres apart.
    The two lines of children moved slowly apart.
    The garage, large enough for two cars, is set apart from (= not joined to) the house.
    I forget the exact age difference between Mark and his brother - they're two or three years apart.
- into smaller pieces: 
    My jacket is so old it's falling apart.
    I took the motor apart (= separated it into pieces) to see how it worked.
- except for or not considering: 
    He works until nine o'clock every evening, and that's quite apart from the work he does over the weekend.
    Apart from the salary/Salary apart, it's not a bad job.
    Apart from you and me/You and me apart, I don't think there was anyone there under 30.
- living or staying in a different place from the person that you are married to or have a close relationship with: 
    When you're apart you rely so heavily on the phone.

certain /ˈsɜː.tən/
- having no doubt or knowing exactly that something is true, or known to be true, correct, exact, or effective: 
    Are you absolutely certain (that) you gave them the right number?
    I feel certain (that) you're doing the right thing.
    You should make certain (that) everyone understands the instructions.
    The police seem certain (that) they will find the people responsible for the attack.
    I'm not certain how much it will cost.
    He was quite certain about/of his attacker's identity.
    One thing is certain - she won't resign willingly.
- to know or say something without doubt: 
    I don't know for certain if she's coming.
    I can't say for certain how long I'll be there.
- impossible to avoid or extremely likely: 
    The population explosion is certain to cause widespread famine.
    Oil prices are certain to rise following the agreement to limit production.
    After all his hard work, he's certain to pass his exams.
    The team looks almost certain to win the match.
    It is virtually certain (that) she will win the gold medal.
    Even if a ceasefire can be agreed, how can they make certain (that) neither side breaks it?
    Cancer sufferers no longer face certain death as they once did.
    This scandal will mean certain defeat for the party in the election.
- named but neither famous nor known well: 
    I had lunch today with a certain George Michael - not the George Michael, I should explain.
- limited: 
    I like modern art to a certain extent/degree, but I don't like the really experimental stuff.
- particular but not named or described: 
    We have certain reasons for our decision, which have to remain confidential.
    Do you think war is justifiable in certain circumstances?
    Certain members of the audience may disagree with what I'm about to say.
- used before a noun when it is difficult to describe something exactly or give its exact amount: 
    The song has a certain appeal, but I'm not sure what it is.
- some: 
    Certain of the candidates were well below the usual standard, but others were very good indeed.

plan /plæn/
- a set of decisions about how to do something in the future: 
    a company's business plan
    a negotiated peace plan
    a five-year plan
    holiday plans
    What are your plans for this weekend?
    My plan is to sell the house and buy an apartment.
- a type of arrangement for financial investment: 
    a pension/savings plan
- to happen in the way you intend: 
    Events of this type rarely go according to plan.
- a drawing of a building, town, area, vehicle, machine, etc. that only shows its shape from above, its size, and the position of important details: 
    a street plan (= a type of map of a town showing the roads)
    a seating plan (= a drawing that shows where each person will sit)
- drawings from which something is made or built: 
    The architect showed us the house plans that she had drawn up.
    I'll send a set of plans for the new machine.
- to think about and decide what you are going to do or how you are going to do something: 
    She helped them to plan their route.
    If we plan carefully, we should be able to stay within our budget.
    She's already planning how to spend her prize money.
- to intend to do something or that an event or result should happen: 
    Our meeting wasn't planned - it was completely accidental.
    I'm not planning to stay here much longer.
    We only planned for six guests, but then someone brought a friend.
- to design a building or structure: 
    The people who planned these new towns had a vision of clean modern housing for everyone.
phrasal verbs:
 plan on doing sth
 plan on sb/sth doing sth
 plan sth out

girlfriend /ˈɡɜːl.frend/
- a woman or girl who a person is having a romantic or sexual relationship with: 
    I've never met his girlfriend.
- the female friend of a woman: 
    Susan was going out to lunch with her girlfriends.
- used, usually by a woman, when talking to a woman: 
    You'd better listen to me, girlfriend.

floor /flɔːr/
- the flat surface of a room on which you walk: 
    The floor was partly covered with a dirty old rug.
    The bathroom floor needs cleaning.
    The children sat playing on the floor.
    There's barely enough floor space to fit a bed in this room.
- a level of a building: 
    This building has five floors.
    Take the elevator to the 51st floor.
    We live on the third floor.
    a ground floor apartment
- a public space for activities such as dancing and having formal discussions: 
    a dance floor
    The new proposal will be discussed on the floor of the senate tomorrow.
    He spent several years working on the factory floor (= in the factory) before becoming a manager.
    The chairman said that he would now take questions from the floor (= from the audience).
- to have the right to speak: 
    Silence, please, the prime minister has the floor.
- to stand and begin to dance: 
    The newlyweds were the first to take the floor.
- start speaking: 
    The Majority Leader again took the floor.
- the bottom surface of the sea, a forest, a cave, etc.: 
    the floor of the ocean/the ocean floor
- to hit someone and cause them to fall: 
    He was floored with a single punch to the head.
- to surprise or confuse someone so much that they are unable to think what to say or do next: 
    I didn't know what to say - I was completely floored.
idioms:
 go through the floor
 floor it

whether /ˈweð.ər/
- (used especially in reporting questions and expressing doubts) if, or not: 
    I wasn't sure whether you'd like it.
    She asked me whether I was interested in working for her.
    I'm wondering whether to have the fish or the beef.
    I doubt whether it'll work.
    I was merely questioning whether we have the money to fund such a project.
    It all depends on whether or not she has the time.
    Anyway, it's a good story, whether or not it's true.
- (used to introduce two or more possibilities) it is not important if: 
    I'm going, whether she likes it or not.
    Someone has to tell her, whether it's you or me.
    Let's face it - you're going to be late whether you go by bus or train.

everything /ˈev.ri.θɪŋ/
- all things: 
    You can't blame him for everything.
    He's obsessed with Britney Spears and collects anything and everything connected with her.
    Jane's been unfaithful to Jim three times, but he still loves her in spite of everything.
    Money isn't everything (= the most important thing).
    His children are everything to him (= the most important part of his life).
    Have you been crying? Is everything all right?
    The thieves took everything.
    We did everything we could to save her but she died.
    We shall do everything necessary to bring the murderer to justice.
    They're very busy with their new house and everything (= all the things connected with it).
idioms:
 everything but/except the kitchen sink

present /ˈprez.ənt/
- something that you are given, without asking for it, on a special occasion, especially to show friendship, or to say thank you: 
    a birthday/Christmas/wedding present
    They gave me theatre tickets as a present.
- the period of time that is happening now, not the past or the future: 
    That's all for the present.
    The play is set in the present.
- the form of the verb that is used to show what happens or exists now: 
    The verb in this sentence is in the present.
- now: 
    "Are you busy?" "Not at present."
    At present she's working abroad.
- in a particular place: 
    The whole family was present.
    There were no children present.
- happening or existing now: 
    I don't have her present address.
    Please state your present occupation and salary.
- to give, provide, or make something known: 
    The winners were presented with medals.
    The letter presented the family with a problem that would be difficult to solve.
    The documentary presented us with a balanced view of the issue.
    He presented the report to his colleagues at the meeting.
    The classroom presented a cheerful busy atmosphere to the visitors (= appeared to them to have this).
    The school is presenting (= performing) "West Side Story" as its end-of-term production.
- to introduce a television or radio show: 
    She presents the late-night news.
- to introduce a person: 
    May I present Professor Carter?
    Later on I'd like to present you to the headteacher.
- to arrive somewhere and introduce yourself: 
    He presented himself at the doctor's at 9.30 a.m. as arranged.
- If something presents itself, it happens: 
    An opportunity suddenly presented itself.
idioms:
 present company excepted

earth /ɜːθ/
- the planet third in order of distance from the sun, between Venus and Mars; the world on which we live: 
    The earth takes approximately 3651/4 days to go round the sun.
    The circus has been described as the greatest show on earth (= in the world).
    Mercury, Venus, Earth, and Mars are called "rocky planets".
- the land surface of the world rather than the sky or sea: 
    The earth was shaking and people rushed out of their houses in panic. 
    He had enjoyed the voyage but was happy to feel the earth beneath his feet once more.
- the usually brown, heavy and loose substance of which a large part of the surface of the ground is made, and in which plants can grow: 
    The ploughed earth looked rich and dark and fertile.
- a wire that makes a connection between a piece of electrical equipment and the ground, so the user is protected from feeling an electric shock if the equipment develops a fault
- a hole in the ground where an animal such as a fox lives
- to put an earth (= wire) between a piece of electrical equipment and the ground: 
    You could get a nasty shock from that water heater if it isn't earthed properly.
idioms:
 come back down to earth
 cost, charge, etc. the earth
 the earth moved
 how, what, why, etc. on earth...
 like nothing (else) on earth

private /ˈpraɪ.vət/
- only for one person or group and not for everyone: 
    She has a small office that is used for private discussions.
    I caught him looking through my private papers.
    The sign on the gate said "Private Property - No Trespassing!"
- Private activities involve personal matters or relationships and are not related to your work: 
    Apparently in interviews he refuses to talk about his private life.
- Private thoughts and opinions are secret and not discussed with other people: 
    Although I support the project in public, my private opinion is that it will fail.
    This is a private matter.
- A private place is quiet and has no other people to see or hear you: 
    Is there somewhere private where we can talk?
- A private person does not like to talk about their personal feelings and thoughts: 
    She's a very private person.
- If you talk to someone or do something in private, you do it without other people being present: 
    Jamie wants to speak to me in private.
- controlled or paid for by a person or company and not by the government: 
    private education/healthcare
    a private doctor/dentist
    Banks should be supporting small private businesses.
- a soldier of the lowest rank in an army: 
    Private Murray/Sam Murray
    You're dismissed, Private.

box /bɒks/
- a square or rectangular container with stiff sides and sometimes a lid: 
    a cardboard box
    a cigar box
    a matchbox
- a box and its contents, or just the contents of a box: 
    a box of matches
    He ate a whole box of chocolates.
- a piece of hard plastic worn by men to protect their sex organs when playing a sport
- any square or rectangular space on a form, sports field, road, etc., separated from the main area by lines: 
    If you would like more information, put an X in the box.
- → 
penalty area 
- a place where two roads cross, marked with a square of yellow lines painted in the centre, that you can drive over only when the road in front is clear
- a small space with walls: 
    a jury/phone box
    Their new house is just a box (= very small).
- a small area with seats that is separate from the other seats in a theatre or at the side of a sports field: 
    Can you see Prince Charles in the royal box?
- television: 
    There's nothing worth watching on the box tonight.
- a box with a number in a post office to which your letters can be sent and from which you can collect them
- a small evergreen tree (= one that never loses its leaves) with small, shiny leaves
- to fight someone in the sport of boxing: 
    He used to box every weekend.
    I've boxed (against) some of the best.
- to put something in a box: 
    I boxed up some clothes and books to donate to charity.
idioms:
 box sb's ears
phrasal verbs:
 box sb/sth in
 box sb in

cover /ˈkʌv.ər/
- to put or spread something over something, or to lie on the surface of something: 
    The light was so bright that I had to cover my eyes.
    Snow covered the hillsides.
    She covered him (up) with a blanket.
    Cover the meat with a layer of cheese.
    The bandages were covered with/in blood.
    How much of the earth's surface is covered by/with water?
- to deal with or direct attention to something: 
    This leaflet covers what we've just discussed in more detail.
    Do these parking restrictions cover residents as well as visitors?
    The salesman's territory covers the whole of the southeast.
- to report the news about a particular important event: 
    She's covering the American election for BBC television.
- to protect someone against loss, damage, accident, or having something stolen, by having insurance: 
    Does your travel insurance cover you against/for the loss or theft of cash?
- to do something to protect yourself from blame or criticism in the future: 
    I kept copies of my expense receipts, just to cover myself.
- to travel a particular distance: 
    We covered 400 km in three hours.
- to be enough money to pay for something: 
    The selling price barely covered the cost of the raw materials.
    Would £50 cover your expenses?
- to aim a gun or shoot at someone to try to stop them from shooting or escaping, or to protect someone else: 
    The police officer was covered by her colleagues while she ran towards the gunman's hideout.
- When soldiers or police officers cover a place such as a road or building, they are in a position from which they can watch and defend it: 
    All the exits are covered, so they can't escape.
- to prevent a member of the opposing team from taking control of the ball by staying close to them all the time
- to do someone else's job or duty when they are absent: 
    I'm going to the doctor's tomorrow, so do you think you could cover my shift for me?
    Sorry, I'm already covering for someone else.
- to make a recording of a song or tune that has already been recorded by someone else: 
    I think more singers have covered "Yesterday" than any other song.
- something that is put on or over something else, usually to protect it, to keep something in, etc.: 
    I keep my computer printer under a protective plastic cover.
    Remove the packaging and pierce the plastic cover before microwaving.
- the stiff outside part of a book or magazine, usually made of thick paper or cardboard: 
    Who should we put on the cover of the magazine this month?
    Paperback books have soft covers.
- to read a book, magazine, etc. all the way through from the beginning to the end
- an envelope
- to send something in a plain/separate envelope
- the blankets, sheets, etc. on a bed: 
    Martha threw back the covers and bounced out of bed.
- shelter or protection in an unpleasant or dangerous situation: 
    We took cover from the storm in a bus shelter.
    The burglar broke into the house under cover of darkness.
- plants, especially bushes, that are used as shelter by animals
- protection by someone who has a gun: 
    We needed more cover from the enemy aircraft.
- financial protection so that you get money if something bad happens: 
    I've got £20,000 worth of cover for the contents of my house.
    Do you have cover for accidental damage?
- a performance or recording of a song or tune that has already been recorded by someone else: 
    How many cover versions have been made of "My Way"?
idioms:
 cover all the bases
 cover your backside/behind/rear
 cover your tracks
phrasal verbs:
 cover sth up

judge /dʒʌdʒ/
- a person who is in charge of a trial in a court and decides how a person who is guilty of a crime should be punished, or who makes decisions on legal matters: 
    a British high-court judge
    a US Supreme Court judge
- the person who officially decides who is the winner of a competition: 
    a panel of judges
- a person who has the knowledge to give an opinion about something or is able to decide if someone or something is good or bad: 
    She's such a bad judge of character.
    "I really don't think you should have another drink." "I'll be/Let me be the judge of that (= I am able to make my own decision about that)."
- to form, give, or have as an opinion, or to decide about something or someone, especially after thinking carefully: 
    So far, he seems to be handling the job well, but it's really too soon to judge.
    It's difficult to judge whether the new system really is an improvement.
    The meeting was judged (to have been) a success.
    You shouldn't judge by/on appearances alone.
    I'm hopeless at judging distance(s) (= guessing how far it is between places).
- to express a bad opinion of someone's behaviour, often because you think you are better than them: 
    You have no right to judge other people because of what they look like or what they believe.
- to officially decide who will be the winner of a competition: 
    I've been asked to judge the children's poetry competition.
- used to express the reasons why you have a particular opinion: 
    Judging by what he said, I think it's very unlikely that he'll be able to support your application.
idioms:
 you can't judge a book by its cover

sake /seɪk/
- in order to help or bring advantage to someone: 
    Please do it, for David's sake.
    Their parents only stayed together for the sake of the children.
    I hope for both our sakes that you're right!
- because of, or for the purpose of something: 
    Let's not disagree for the sake of (= because of) a few dollars.
    Let's say, just for the sake of argument/for argument's sake (= for the purpose of this discussion), that prices rise by three percent this year.
    You're only arguing for the sake of arguing (= because you like arguing).
- used to emphasize requests or orders when you are angry or have lost patience: 
    For goodness' sake don't let her know I told you!
- a Japanese alcoholic drink made from rice and usually drunk warm

mommy /ˈmɒm.i/
- child's word for mother: 
    I want my mommy.
    I'm thirsty, Mommy.

possibly /ˈpɒs.ə.bli/
- used when something is not certain: 
    He may possibly decide not to come, in which case there's no problem.
- used to agree or disagree when some doubt is involved: 
    "Do you think this skirt might be too small for her?" "(Very) possibly - she has put on a some weight."
    "Will he come?" "Possibly not."
- used with "can" or "could" for emphasis: 
    He can't possibly have drunk all that on his own!
    We did all that we possibly could to persuade her to come.
- used in polite requests: 
    Could I possibly ask you to move your chair a little?
- used when politely refusing offers: 
    "Have another chocolate." "No, really, I couldn't possibly."

worst /wɜːst/
- superlative of 
bad : of the lowest quality, or the most unpleasant, difficult, or severe: 
    That was the worst meal I've ever eaten.
    "It was the worst moment of my life," she admitted.
    He is my worst enemy.
- the most unpleasant or difficult thing, person, or situation: 
    That was the worst I've seen him play in several years.
- the most badly: 
    Small businesses have been worst hit by the recession.
    Roads in rural areas were worst affected by the snow.
    The students voted him the school's worst-dressed teacher.
- used to emphasize what is worst about a situation: 
    We had no food or light, but worst of all, we had no water.
- to defeat someone in a fight or argument: 
    He was worsted in a fight with a bigger boy.
idioms:
 at your worst
 at worst
 do your worst
 fear the worst
 if the worst comes to the worst
 be your own worst enemy

station /ˈsteɪ.ʃən/
- a building and the surrounding area where buses or trains stop for people to get on or off: 
    a railway station
    a railroad station
    a train/bus/coach station
    Our office is near the station.
    We looked on our map to find the nearest underground/tube (US subway/metro) station.
- a company that broadcasts radio or television programmes: 
    a radio/television station
    a commercial/foreign station
    The reception is not very good - try to tune in to another station.
    a pirate (= illegal) station
- a building or place used for a particular service or type of work: 
    a gas station
    a petrol station
    a police/fire station
    a biological research station
- a large farm with animals in Australia and New Zealand: 
    a sheep station
- a particular position that someone has been ordered to move into or to stay in: 
    The police took up their stations at the edge of the road, holding back the crowd.
- to cause especially soldiers to be in a particular place to do a job: 
    I hear your son's in the army - where's he stationed?
    The regiment was stationed in Singapore for several years.
    Armed guards were stationed around the airport.
idioms:
 out of station

accept /əkˈsept/
- to agree to take something: 
    Do you accept credit cards?
    She was in Mumbai to accept an award for her latest novel.
    I offered her an apology, but she wouldn't accept it.
    I accept full responsibility for the failure of the plan.
    The new coffee machines will accept coins of any denomination.
- to say yes to an offer or invitation: 
    We've offered her the job, but I don't know whether she'll accept it.
    I've just accepted an invitation to the opening-night party.
    I've been invited to their wedding but I haven't decided whether to accept.
- to consider something or someone as satisfactory: 
    The manuscript was accepted for publication last week.
    She was accepted as a full member of the society.
    His fellow workers refused to accept him (= to include him as one of their group).
- to believe that something is true: 
    The police refused to accept her version of the story.
    He still hasn't accepted the situation (= realized that he cannot change it).
    I can't accept that there's nothing we can do.

blow /bləʊ/
blow | blew | blown
- to move and make currents of air, or to be moved or make something move on a current of air: 
    The wind was blowing harder every minute.
    The letter blew away and I had to run after it.
    A gale-force wind had blown the fence down.
    I blew the dust off the books.
    I wish you wouldn't blow smoke in my face.
- to make a sound by forcing air out of your mouth and through an instrument, or to make a sound when someone does this: 
    Ann blew a few notes on the trumpet.
    He scored the winning goal just before the whistle blew.
- to blow air down a tube into a piece of heated soft glass, in order to shape it into an object: 
    a beautiful blown glass vase
- to force air from your lungs and through your nose to clear it
- to kiss your hand and blow on it in the direction of someone
- to cause something to be destroyed by a bomb, technical failure, etc.: 
    His car had been blown to pieces.
- If an electrical fuse (= a short, thin piece of wire) blows, or if something electrical blows a fuse, the device it is in stops working because it is receiving too much electricity.
- If a tyre blows, it suddenly gets a hole in it and goes flat.
- to seriously damage something by making it explode: 
    The explosion blew the building sky-high.
- to spend a large amount of money, especially on things that are not really necessary: 
    When I got paid I blew it all on a night out.
- a hard hit with a hand or a weapon: 
    a sharp blow to the stomach
- an unexpected event that has a damaging effect on someone or something: 
    Losing his job was a severe blow to his confidence.
    Her death came as a terrible blow to her parents.
- an act of blowing: 
    a blow on the trumpet
    It took him three blows to get all the candles out.
- a walk in the fresh air: 
    Shall we go out for a blow?
- → 
cannabis 
- → 
cocaine 
idioms:
 be blowed if...
 blow (it)!
 blow sb's brains out
 blow sb's cover
 blow your lid/top/stack
 blow sth/sb out of the water
 blow sb's mind
 blow your own trumpet/horn
 blow a fuse/gasket
 blow hot and cold
 blow it
 blow the cobwebs away
 blow the gaff
 blow the whistle on sb/sth
 I'll be blowed!
 come to blows
phrasal verbs:
 blow sb away
 blow sb/sth away
 blow sth/sb off
 blow (sth) out
 blow sb out
 blow over
 blow (sb/sth) up
 blow sth up
 blow up

strange /streɪndʒ/
- unusual and unexpected, or difficult to understand: 
    He has some very strange ideas about women!
    You say the strangest things sometimes.
    I had a strange feeling that we'd met before.
    It's strange that tourists almost never visit this village.
    That's strange - I'm sure I put my glasses in my bag, but they're not there.
- to feel uncomfortable and not normal or correct: 
    I hope that fish was all right - my stomach feels a little strange .
- not known or familiar: 
    I don't accept rides from strange men.
    With so many strange faces around her, the baby started to cry.
    I've never been here before either, so it's all strange to me too.
idioms:
 stranger things have happened

save /seɪv/
- to stop someone or something from being killed, injured, or destroyed: 
    Wearing seat belts has saved many lives.
    He fell in the river but his friend saved him from drowning.
    He had to borrow money to save his business.
    He was desperately trying to save their failing marriage.
    We all need to do our part to save the planet.
    The former tennis champion was now serving to save the match (= to win the next point so that the other player did not win this part of the competition).
- to stop someone from being killed
- to help someone escape from a difficult or unpleasant situation: 
    Thanks for helping me with that report - you saved my life!
- to keep something, especially money, for use in the future: 
    Tom's been saving his pocket money every week.
    We're saving (up) for a new car.
    I save all my old letters in case I want to read them again.
    Save me a place at your table, OK?
- to put information into a computer's memory or onto a computer disk: 
    Don't forget to save your work regularly.
    To save, press Control S.
- to prevent time, money, or effort being wasted or spent: 
    You'll save time if you take the car.
    Thanks for your help - it saved me a lot of work.
    I'll lend you a bag for your trip - it'll save you buying one.
    Can you save it for later (= tell me your news later when I am less busy)?
- in football and similar games, to stop the ball from going into the goal when a player on the other team has kicked or hit it
- in football or similar games, when a player stops the ball from going into the goal when it is hit or kicked by a player from the other team: 
    The goalkeeper made a great save in the last minute of the game.
- but or except for: 
    They found all the lost documents save one.
idioms:
 can't do sth to save your life
 save sb's bacon/neck
 save your breath
 save your own skin/hide
 save the day
 saved by the bell
phrasal verbs:
 save on sth
 save (sth) up

plane /pleɪn/
- a vehicle designed for air travel, with wings and one or more engines: 
    a fighter/transport/passenger plane
    We'll be boarding the plane in about 20 minutes.
    He hates travelling by plane.
    a plane ticket
- in mathematics, a flat or level surface that continues in all directions: 
    an inclined plane
- a particular level or standard: 
    The poet's treatment of the subject lifts it to a mystical plane.
    His work is on a completely different plane from (= is much better than) other writers.
- a tool used to make wooden surfaces and edges flat and smooth by removing small strips of the wood
- a large tree with wide leaves and spreading branches that grows especially in towns
- to remove small strips of wood from a surface with a special tool: 
    You'll have to plane some more off the bottom of the door - it's still sticking.
- flat: 
    a plane edge/surface

yesterday /ˈjes.tə.deɪ/
- on the day before today: 
    He called yesterday while you were out.
    I saw her yesterday afternoon.
- the day before today: 
    "Is that today's paper?" "No, it's yesterday's."
- two days ago: 
    I called her the day before yesterday.
- the recent past: 
    Nobody's interested in yesterday's pop stars.
    These songs are a part of all our yesterdays.

quick /kwɪk/
- happening or done with great speed, or lasting only a short time: 
    It's a quick journey.
    I had a quick coffee and left the house.
    I only had time for a quick glance at the paper this morning.
    He scored three goals in quick succession (= one after the other in a short time).
    Could I have a quick word (= speak to you for a short time)?
    Quick as lightning (= very quickly), he snatched the book and ran out of the room.
- doing something fast: 
    I tried to catch him but he was too quick for me.
- to do something fast, sometimes too fast: 
    She was quick to point out that it wasn't her fault.
- used to describe someone who is clever and understands or notices things quickly: 
    She was quick at understanding what we wanted her to do.
    He has a quick mind.
    Donna's quick thinking (= ability to solve problems with speed) averted what could have been a disaster.
- someone who is able to learn things quickly: 
    He's a quick study and easily grasps all the details of a discussion.
- produced quickly and therefore not perfect: 
    The original solution was admittedly quick and dirty.
    a quick and dirty way to evaluate an investment
- used for telling someone to do something quickly: 
    Quick! Close the door before the cat comes in!
- quickly: 
    We bought it quick, before someone else could.
- the area of flesh under your nails: 
    He's bitten his nails to the quick.

lately /ˈleɪt.li/
- recently: 
    I haven't been feeling so well lately.
    Have you been doing anything interesting lately?

stuck /stʌk/
- past simple and past participle of stick
- unable to move, or set in a particular position, place, or way of thinking: 
    This door seems to be stuck - can you help me push it open?
    Seven of us were stuck in the lift for over an hour.
    I hate being stuck (= having to be) behind a desk - I'd rather work outside.
- in a difficult situation, or unable to change or get away from a situation: 
    We'd be stuck if your sister hadn't offered to come over and look after the children tonight.
- not able to continue reading, answering questions, etc. because something is too difficult: 
    I'm really stuck - do you have any idea how to answer these questions?
- to have to deal with someone or something unpleasant because you have no choice or because no one else wants to: 
    We were stuck with him for the entire journey!
idioms:
 be stuck on sb/sth
 get stuck in

lovely /ˈlʌv.li/
- pleasant or enjoyable: 
    a lovely meal/evening
    We had a lovely time with them.
- beautiful: 
    She has lovely eyes.
    You look lovely in that dress.
    Thank you for the lovely present.
- used to describe a person who is kind, friendly, and pleasant to be with: 
    He's a lovely guy.
- a sexually attractive woman: 
    Simon was there with the usual bevy of lovelies.
- used as a friendly form of address: 
    Hello, lovely. Good to have you home.
    Sleep well, my lovelies.

security /sɪˈkjʊə.rə.ti/
- protection of a person, building, organization, or country against threats such as crime or attacks by foreign countries: 
    The station was closed for two hours because of a security alert.
    30 demonstrators were killed in clashes with the security forces over the weekend.
    The tighter security measures/precautions include video cameras throughout the city centre.
    The students were deported because they posed a threat to national security.
    The banks must tighten security against fraud.
    The most dangerous criminals are held in maximum-security prisons (= prisons that are as difficult as possible to escape from).
- the group of people responsible for protecting a building: 
    You'll need to notify security if you want to work late in the office.
- the fact that something is not likely to fail or be lost: 
    If it's a choice between higher pay and job security, I'd prefer to keep my job.
    I'm on a temporary contract and have little financial security (= cannot be sure of having enough money to live on).
- property or goods that you promise to give to someone if you cannot pay what you owe them: 
    She used her shares in the company as security against a $23 million bank loan.
    The hotel held onto our suitcases as security while we went to the bank to get money to pay the bill.
- investment in a company or in government debt that can be traded on the financial markets and produces an income for the investor
- the feeling of being confident in one's family and relationships: 
    Most children need the security of a stable family life.

report /rɪˈpɔːt/
- to give a description of something or information about it to someone: 
    We called the insurance company to report the theft.
    The assassination was reported in all the newspapers.
    I want you to report (to me) on progress (= on what you have done) every Friday.
    Spies reported seeing a build-up of soldiers.
    He was reported missing in action.
    The inquiry reports (= will officially make its results known) next week.
- to be described by people as being or doing a particular thing although there is no real proof: 
    The storm is reported to have killed five people.
- to make a complaint to a person in authority about something or someone: 
    My neighbours reported me to the police for firing my rifle in the garden.
- to go to a place or a person and say that you are there: 
    I report for (= am ready for and at) work/duty at 8 a.m. every morning.
- a teacher's written statement to parents about a child's ability and performance at school
- a description of an event or situation: 
    a news/weather report
    a company's financial/annual report
    I gave/made/submitted a report of the theft to the insurance company.
    She sent in weekly reports on the situation.
- stories for which you do not yet have real proof: 
    According to reports, ten pupils were expelled.
    We're getting reports of a plane crash in Paris.
- the loud noise of a shot: 
    We heard the loud/sharp report of a rifle.
phrasal verbs:
 report back
 report to sb

difference /ˈdɪf.ər.əns/
- the way in which two or more things which you are comparing are not the same: 
    What's the difference between an ape and a monkey?
    Is there any significant difference in quality between these two items?
- to improve a situation (a lot): 
    Exercise can make a big difference to your state of health.
    Putting up some new wallpaper has made all the difference to the place.
- to not change a situation in any way: 
    You can ask him again if you want, but it won't make any difference - he'll still say no.
    It makes no difference where you put the plants - they won't grow in this soil.
- used to say that something is unusual, and more interesting or better than other things of the same type: 
    Try new Cremetti - the ice cream with a difference.
- a disagreement: 
    They had a terrible argument a few weeks ago, but now they've settled/resolved their differences.
- to disagree: 
    They had a difference of opinion about/over their child's education.
- the amount by which one thing is different from another: 
    a(n) age/price/temperature difference
    There's a big difference in age between them.
    There's a difference of eight years between them.
idioms:
 for all the difference sth makes

store /stɔːr/
- a large shop where you can buy many different types of goods: 
    a department store
    a DIY/furniture store
- any type of shop: 
    a clothing/liquor store
    a department store
    a furniture store
    a convenience store
- an amount of something that is being kept for future use: 
    He has an impressively large store of wine in his cellar.
    Food stores are reported to be running dangerously low in the capital.
    My grandmothers store of memories was shared over the dinner table.
- a building in which things are kept until they are needed: 
    a grain/weapons store
- to put or keep things in a special place for use in the future: 
    The data is stored on a hard disk and backed up on a CD.
    I stored my possessions in my mother's house while I was living in Spain.
    I've stored my thick sweaters and jackets (away) until next winter.
    Squirrels store (up) nuts for the winter.
idioms:
 in store
 set great, little, etc. store by sth
phrasal verbs:
 store sth up

bag /bæɡ/
- a soft container made out of paper or thin plastic, and open at the top, used to hold foods and other goods: 
    a paper/plastic bag
    a bag of apples/nuts
    Don't eat that whole bag of (= the amount the bag contains) sweets at once.
- a container made of leather, plastic, or other material, usually with a handle or handles, in which you carry personal things, or clothes or other things that you need for travelling: 
    She pulled a pen and notepad out of her bag and started jotting down information.
    I hadn't even packed my bags (= put the things I need in suitcases/bags).
    a shopping bag
- dark, loose, or swollen skin under your eyes because of tiredness or old age
- a place on a website where you collect the names of things you intend to buy from the website: 
    Simply add the item to your bag, and proceed to checkout as normal.
- a rude and insulting name for a woman, especially an older one: 
    Silly old bag!
- trousers with a wide and loose style: 
    Oxford bags
- to put something in a bag: 
    Shall I bag (up) those tomatoes for you?
- to get something before other people have a chance to take it: 
    Bag us some decent seats/Bag some decent seats for us if you get there first, won't you?
- to win sth, especially a prize: 
    He's the bookies' favourite to bag an Oscar.
    He is eager to bag his fifth victory of the season.
- to hunt and kill an animal or bird
- to reach the top of a mountain: 
    We bagged three summits in one day.
- to hang loosely like a bag: 
    I hate these trousers - they bag (out) at the back.
- to not use something that you have, and use something else instead: 
    Bag that old gray sweater, and wear something more colorful.
- to criticize or laugh at someone or something in an unkind way: 
    Stop bagging her (out) - she's doing her best.
idioms:
 bags of sth
 be sb's bag
 be in the bag
 bags I...

ball /bɔːl/
- any object in the shape of a sphere, especially one used as a toy by children or in various sports such as tennis and football: 
    a beach/golf/tennis ball
    Just try to concentrate on hitting the ball.
    The kitten curled itself into a ball (= the shape of a ball).
- a long piece of thread that has been rolled into a ball: 
    a ball of string/wool
- the rounded part of your foot or thumb where the toes join the foot and the thumb joins the hand
- in football, a pass from one player to another: 
    Long picked up a great ball from Campbell and rounded the keeper to score.
- in baseball, a ball that is thrown to the batter but that the batter does not try to hit because it is outside the hitting area
- any game that involves throwing and catching a ball: 
    The kids were outside playing ball.
    I like watching college/pro ball.
- a large formal occasion where people dance: 
    Did you go to the Summer Ball last year?
- a testicle: 
    He noticed a lump in his left ball.
- to make something form a closed round shape: 
    She balled her fists so her nails dug deep into her palms.
- (of a man) to have sex with someone
idioms:
 the ball is in sb's court
 be on the ball
 behind the eight ball
 have a ball
 start/set/get the ball rolling
 pick up/take the ball and run with it 

single /ˈsɪŋ.ɡəl/
- one only: 
    He knocked his opponent down with a single blow.
    Not a single person offered to help her.
    You haven't been listening to a single word I've been saying.
- not married, or not having a romantic relationship with someone: 
    a single woman/man/person
    He's been single for so long now, I don't think he'll ever marry.
    The number of single-parent families dependent on the state has risen enormously in recent years.
- considered on its own and separate from other things: 
    Patience is the single most important quality needed for this job.
    She lost every single thing when her house burned down.
- A baseball player singles by hitting a ball that allows him to reach first base.
- a record or CD that has a main song and usually a small number of other songs on it: 
    Have you heard Lady Gaga's new single?
- in cricket, one run (= point)
- in baseball, a hit that allows the player to reach first base
- a game, especially in tennis, played between one player on one side and one on the other
- people who are not married and do not have a romantic relationship with someone
- a ticket for a journey to a place, but not for the return: 
    May I have a single to London, please.
- a 
single room 
phrasal verbs:
 single sb/sth out

doubt /daʊt/
- (a feeling of) not being certain about something, especially about how good or true it is: 
    I'm having doubts about his ability to do the job.
    If there's any doubt about the rocket's engines, we ought to cancel the launch.
    The prosecution has to establish his guilt beyond reasonable doubt (US beyond a reasonable) doubt.
    This latest scandal has raised doubts about whether he could win the election.
    I never had any doubt (that) you would win.
    He's the most attractive man in the room, no doubt about that/it.
- used to emphasize that what you are saying is true or likely to happen: 
    We will, no doubt, discuss these issues again at the next meeting.
    No doubt you'll want to unpack and have a rest before dinner.
- to make something seem uncertain: 
    Witnesses have cast doubt on the accused's innocence.
- If the future or success of someone or something is in doubt, it is unlikely to continue or to be successful: 
    The future of the stadium is in doubt because of a lack of money.
- used to emphasize your opinion: 
    She is without (a) doubt the best student I have ever taught.
- to not feel certain or confident about something or to think that something is not probable: 
    I doubt whether/if I can finish the work on time.
    They had begun to doubt that it could be done.
    He may come back tomorrow with the money, but I very much doubt it.
    I don't doubt his abilities.
- to not trust someone or believe what they say: 
    He's never lied to me before, so I have no reason to doubt his word.

blue /bluː/
- of the colour of the sky without clouds on a bright day, or a darker or lighter type of this: 
    a faded blue shirt
    pale blue eyes
    Her hands were blue with cold (= slightly blue because of the cold).
- showing or mentioning sexual activity in a way that offends many people: 
    a blue joke
    a blue movie/film
    His humour is a bit too blue for my tastes.
- feeling or showing sadness: 
    He's been a bit blue since she left him.
- (of meat) cooked so that it is still very red
- the colour of the sky without clouds on a bright day, or a darker or lighter type of this
- a person who has played a sport for Oxford University against Cambridge University or for Cambridge University against Oxford University, or the title given to him or her for this
- an argument with someone: 
    He had a blue with his wife in the middle of the street.
idioms:
 scream/shout blue murder
 until you are blue in the face
 out of the blue

deep /diːp/
- going or being a long way down from the top or surface, or being of a particular distance from the top to the bottom: 
    a deep well/mine
    a deep river/sea
    a deep cut
    The hole is so deep you can't see the bottom.
    The water's not deep here - look, I can touch the bottom.
    Drill 20 holes, each 2 inches deep.
    The water's only ankle/knee/waist-deep, so we'll be able to get across the river easily.
    Take a few deep breaths (= breaths that fill the lungs with air) and calm down.
- very strongly felt or experienced and usually lasting a long time: 
    Their son has been a deep disappointment to them.
    We're in deep trouble.
    She fell into a deep sleep.
- (of a sound) low: 
    a wonderfully deep voice
- showing or needing serious thought, or not easy to understand: 
    His films are generally too deep for me.
- If something is deep, it has a large distance between its edges, especially between its front and back edges: 
    Is the alcove deep enough for bookshelves?
    The wardrobe is 2 m high, 1 m wide and 60 cm deep.
    By midnight, there were customers standing six deep (= in six rows) at the bar.
- near the middle of something, and a long distance from its edges: 
    Little Red Riding Hood's grandmother lived in a house deep in the forest.
- (of a colour) strong and dark: 
    The sky was deep blue.
- a long way from the top or surface : 
    The submarine sailed deep under the ice cap.
    He thrust his hands deep in(to) his pockets.
- If a football player or team plays deep, they stay a long way inside their own half of the field: 
    Some midfielders play deep, having a more defensive role, while others go forward.
- the sea or the ocean
idioms:
 deep in thought
 be in deep water
 deep pockets
 go off the deep end
 jump in at the deep end
 deep down
 run/go deep

park /pɑːk/
- a large area of land with grass and trees, usually surrounded by fences or walls, and specially arranged so that people can walk in it for pleasure or children can play in it: 
    Central Park
    Hyde Park
    We watched the joggers in the park.
- an area of land that is used for a particular purpose: 
    an office/a business park
- an area of land for playing sports on
- an area of land around a large house in the countryside
- to put a vehicle in a place where it can stay for a period of time, usually while you leave it: 
    Where have you parked?
    Just park your car in the driveway.
- to put yourself or something in a particular place for a long time, often annoying other people: 
    He parked himself in front of the TV and stayed there all afternoon.
    She's parked an enormous pile of papers on my desk and I haven't a clue what to do with them.
- to not deal with something or answer a question immediately but leave it for a later time: 
    Can we park that question until the end of the session?
idioms:
 park the bus
phrasal verbs:
 park up

record /rɪˈkɔːd/
- to store sounds or moving pictures using electronic equipment so that they can be heard or seen later: 
    Cliff Richard has recorded more number one hit songs than any other British pop star.
    We recorded their wedding on video.
    I tried to call her, but all I got was a recorded message saying that she was away for the weekend.
    Was the concert live or was it recorded (= made before being broadcast)?
- to keep information for the future, by writing it down or storing it on a computer: 
    She records everything that happens to her in her diary.
    Unemployment is likely to reach the highest total that has ever been recorded.
    In his journal, Captain Scott recorded that he and his companions were weakened by lack of food.
    The coroner recorded (= decided) a verdict of accidental death.
- If a device records a measurement, it shows that measurement: 
    The thermometer recorded a temperature of 30 degrees Celsius.
- a piece of information or a description of an event that is written on paper or stored on a computer: 
    The weather centre keeps a record of the weather.
    This summer has been the hottest on record (= the hottest summer known about).
- information about someone or something that is stored by the police or by a doctor: 
    A person's medical records are confidential.
    He is well known to the police and has a long criminal record (= a list kept by the police of his previous crimes).
- the facts that are known about a person or a company and the actions they have done in the past: 
    I won't fly with an airline that has a bad safety record (= whose aircraft have often had accidents).
- something that you say before you tell someone something important that you want them to remember: 
    And, just for the record, we were never any more than good friends.
- a flat plastic disc on which music is recorded: 
    Would you like to listen to some records?
- a song or music that has been recorded and is available for the public to buy: 
    The Beatles' first hit record was "Love Me Do".
- the best or fastest ever done: 
    He ran the 100 metres in 9.79 seconds and broke/smashed the world record.
    She set/established a new European record in the high jump.
- at a higher level than ever achieved before: 
    The long hot summer has led to a record harvest this year.
    Inflation has reached record levels.
    We finished the work in record time (= faster than had ever been done before).
idioms:
 go on record
 off the record
 on the record
 set/put the record straight

lord /lɔːd/
- a male peer
- a man who has a lot of power in a particular area of activity: 
    Several alleged drug lords are to be put on trial.
- to behave as if you are better than someone and have the right to tell them what to do: 
    He likes to lord it over his little sister.
- a title used in front of the names of male peers and officials of very high rank: 
    Lord Longford
    the Lord Chancellor
- → 
the House of Lords 
- in the UK, used to address a judge or peer
- (in the Christian religion) God or Jesus Christ: 
    Praise the Lord!
    Lord, hear our prayer.
idioms:
 (oh) Lord
 Lord knows
 your lord and master

join /dʒɔɪn/
- to connect or fasten things together: 
    A long suspension bridge joins the two islands.
    Join the two pieces together using strong glue.
    The island is joined to the mainland by a road bridge.
    If you join (up) the dots on the paper, you'll get a picture.
- If roads or rivers join, they meet at a particular point: 
    The A11 joins the M11 south of Cambridge.
    The River Murray and the River Darling join east of Adelaide.
- to get involved in an activity or journey with another person or group: 
    I don't have time for a drink now, but I'll join you later.
    Why don't you ask your sister if she would like to join us for supper?
    We took the ferry across the Channel and then joined (= got on) the Paris train at Calais.
    If you're buying tickets, please join the queue (= stand at the end of it).
    I'm sure everyone will join me in wishing you a very happy retirement (= everyone else will do this too).
    The police have joined with (= they have begun to work with) the Drug Enforcement Agency in trying to catch major drug traffickers.
    The design company is planning to join up with a shoe manufacturer and create a new line of footwear.
- to become a member of an organization: 
    I felt so unfit after Christmas that I decided to join a gym.
    It's a great club. Why don't you join?
- to become one of a particular large group of people: 
    When I leave school at the end of this month, I'll probably have to join the ranks of the unemployed.
- a place where two things meet or are fastened together: 
    She'd stitched the two pieces together really carefully so that you couldn't see the join.
idioms:
 be joined in marriage/matrimony
 join battle
 join duty
 join hands
 join the club!
phrasal verbs:
 join in (sth)
 join up

key /kiː/
- a piece of metal that has been cut into a special shape and is used for opening or closing a lock, starting a car engine, etc.: 
    car/door keys
- any of the set of moving parts that you press with your fingers on a computer keyboard, or musical instrument to produce letters, numbers, symbols, or musical notes
- a set of musical notes based on one particular note: 
    The song changes key halfway through.
    the key of C minor
- a list of the symbols used in a map or book with explanations of what they mean
- a list of the answers to the questions in an exercise or test: 
    See the key to test 3 on page 176.
- very important and having a lot of influence on other people or things: 
    She was a key figure in the international art world.
    a key factor in tackling the problem
- to intentionally damage a car by scratching its paint using a key: 
    Someone keyed his Porsche.
idioms:
 the key to sth
phrasal verbs:
 key sth in
 key sth to sb/sth

captain /ˈkæp.tɪn/
- the leader of a sports team: 
    It's unusual to have a goalkeeper as (the) captain of a football team.
- the person in charge of a ship or an aircraft: 
    This is your captain speaking. We expect to be landing at Osaka Kansai airport in an hour's time.
- an officer's rank in the British army or navy, or in the US air force, Marine Corps, Coast Guard, or the US police and fire departments: 
    The captain gave him his orders.
    Captain Lane/Alex Lane
    Yes, Captain.
- to lead and be the captain of a team, military group, ship, or aircraft: 
    She captained the Canadian ice hockey team for three years.

card /kɑːd/
- a small, rectangular piece of card or plastic, often with your signature, photograph, or other information proving who you are, that allows you to do something, such as make a payment, get money from a bank, or enter a particular place: 
    I don't have any cash - can I put this on (= pay using) my (credit/charge) card?
    A lot of shops won't accept cheques unless you have a cheque card with you.
    The bank's closed now, but I can get some money out with my (cash) card.
    I don't have any change for the phone but I do have a (phone) card, if that's of any use.
    You usually have to show your (membership) card at the door.
- one of a set of 52 small rectangular pieces of stiff paper each with a number and one of four signs printed on it, used in games: 
    After dinner, Ted got out a pack of cards
    John shuffled (= mixed up) the cards before he dealt them (out) (= gave them to the players).
    Whist is my favourite card game.
    a card table
- any of a range of games played with cards, such as poker, whist, and bridge: 
    I've never been much good at cards.
    Shall we have a game of/play cards?
- a rectangular piece of stiff paper, folded in half, with a picture on the front and often a message printed inside, sent on a special occasion: 
    anniversary/get-well cards
    It's Steve's birthday on Thursday - I must send him a card.
- a 
postcard 
- a small, rectangular piece of stiff paper with information printed on it, especially a person's job title, business address, and phone number: 
    Here, let me give you my (business) card.
- a small, rectangular piece of stiff paper with a picture of someone or something, especially a sports player, and information about them, for people to collect and exchange with other people: 
    I can't believe I'm playing against guys whose cards I collected as a kid. 
    a football/baseball card
- (a piece of) thick stiff paper
- a thin plate inside a computer that contains very small electronic circuits and controls certain operations of the computer: 
    a graphics/sound card
- a funny or strange person: 
    You're such a card, Patrick!
- to ask someone to show you a document, especially an identity card, in order to prove how old they are
idioms:
 be on the cards
 your best/strongest/trump card
 have a card up your sleeve
 keep/hold your cards close to your chest
 put/lay your cards on the table

crime /kraɪm/
- illegal activities: 
    a life of crime
    rising crime
    crime prevention
    petty (= unimportant) crime/serious crime
- an illegal act: 
    He has admitted committing several crimes, including fraud.
    The defendant is accused of/charged with a range of crimes, from theft to murder.
    A knife was found at the scene of the crime (= the place where the crime happened).
    Bombing civilians is a crime against humanity (= a cruel crime against many people).
- an unacceptable or very silly act or situation: 
    To have hundreds of homeless people sleeping in the streets of a rich city like London is a crime .
    It would be a crime (= a waste) to spend such a beautiful day indoors.
idioms:
 crime doesn't pay

window /ˈwɪn.dəʊ/
- a space usually filled with glass in the wall of a building or in a vehicle, to allow light and air in and to allow people inside the building to see out: 
    Is it all right if I open/close the window?
    He caught me staring out of the window.
    I saw a child's face at the window.
    She has some wonderful plants in the window (= on a surface at the bottom of the window).
    I was admiring the cathedral's stained-glass windows.
    Have you paid the window cleaner (= person whose job is to clean the outside of windows)?
    window frames
    a window ledge
- something that makes it possible for you to see and learn about a situation or experience that is different from your own: 
    The film provides a window on the immigrant experience.
- a transparent rectangle on the front of an envelope, through which you can read the address written on the letter inside
- the decorative arrangement of goods behind the window at the front of a shop, in addition to the window itself: 
    How much is the jacket in the window?
    The shop windows are wonderful around Christmas time.
- a separate area on a computer screen that shows information and can be moved around: 
    to minimize/maximize a window
- a period when there is an opportunity to do something: 
    I'm busy this week but there might be a window on Friday.
    If a window of opportunity (= an opportunity) should present itself, I'd take advantage of it.
idioms:
 go out (of) the window

return /rɪˈtɜːn/
- to come or go back to a previous place: 
    Odysseus returned home/returned to his home after many years of travelling.
    She left South Africa at the age of 15 and has never returned.
    David returned (from work) to find his house had burned down.
- If people or things return to a previous condition, they go back to that condition: 
    Within a week, the situation had returned to normal.
- If you return to an activity or subject, you start doing it or talking about it again: 
    Gandhi urged Indians to return to spinning their own yarn.
    Every five minutes, he returned to the same subject.
- to give, do, or get something after something similar has been given or done to you: 
    to return an invitation/greeting
    I returned his stare.
    I gave her a ride when her car broke down and now she is returning the favour (= doing something to help me in exchange).
    The terrorists started shooting and the police returned fire (= started shooting back).
- to reply to someone's question or request: 
    His representatives did not return a request for comment.
    She hadn't returned their earlier queries because, she said, she had already explained herself clearly.
- to give a particular amount of profit: 
    My investments return a high rate of interest.
- to send, take, give, put, etc. something back to where it came from: 
    The new TV broke so they returned it to the shop.
    He returned two books he had borrowed from me in 2003.
    She carefully returned the book to its place on the shelf.
- in sports such as tennis, to hit the ball back to your opponent
- to happen again: 
    You must go to the doctor if the pain returns.
- to decide and say if you think someone is guilty or not guilty, or what punishment the person will be given in a court of law: 
    The jury returned a verdict of not guilty.
- to elect someone to be a member of parliament, or to another political job: 
    It was expected that he would be returned as premier.
- an occasion when someone goes or comes back to a place where they were before: 
    The whole town came out to celebrate his return (from the war).
    On her return, she went straight to the office.
- an occasion when you start to do or have something again: 
    Some environmentalists argue for a return to a pre-industrial society.
    Most people have welcomed her return to power/office.
- a ticket for travel to a place and back again: 
    A return to Birmingham, please.
- in exchange: 
    Some tenants get rent reductions in return for help managing the building.
    I'll come with you, but you have to do something for me in return.
- the act of giving, doing, or receiving something in exchange for something: 
    Several soldiers were wounded in the return of fire.
- the profit that you get from an investment: 
    The return on the money we invested was very low.
- an occasion when something starts to happen or be used again: 
    Will we ever see the return of/a return to comfortable fashion clothes?
- the key on a computer keyboard that you press in order to say that the words or numbers on the screen are correct, or that an instruction should be performed, or in order to move down a line on the screen: 
    Press return/the return key twice to leave a blank line.
- the act of giving, putting, or sending something back: 
    the return of the stolen goods
- the act of hitting the ball back to your opponent in sports such as tennis: 
    Chang's return of serve was powerful.
- goods that have been taken back to the shop where they were bought by customers because they are damaged or unsuitable
- the votes that are returned, or the results of the voting, in an election: 
    The election returns produced a confusing picture of gains and losses.
- in the first post collection that leaves after you receive a letter: 
    She answered my letter by return.
- The return part of a journey is the part in which you go back to the place where you started: 
    The return journey took longer because the train was rerouted.

guilty /ˈɡɪl.ti/
- feeling guilt: 
    I feel so guilty about forgetting her birthday.
    She must have done something wrong, because she's looking so guilty.
    You've got a guilty conscience - that's why you can't sleep.
- responsible for breaking a law: 
    The jury has to decide whether a person is guilty or innocent of a crime.
    A person accused of a crime is presumed innocent until proven guilty.
    The defendent pleaded guilty (= they formally admitted their guilt in court) to the charge of manslaughter.
- the person who has done something wrong or who has committed a crime
idioms:
 guilty as charged

difficult /ˈdɪf.ɪ.kəlt/
- needing skill or effort: 
    a difficult problem/choice/task/language
    It will be very difficult to prove that they are guilty.
    Many things make it difficult for women to reach the top in US business.
    It is extremely difficult being a single parent.
- not friendly, easy to deal with, or behaving well: 
    The manager is difficult to deal with/a difficult person to deal with.
    His wife is a very difficult woman.
    Please children, don't be so difficult!

soul /səʊl/
- the spiritual part of a person that some people believe continues to exist in some form after their body has died, or the part of a person that is not physical and experiences deep feelings and emotions: 
    She suffered greatly while she was alive, so let us hope her soul is now at peace.
- the quality of a person or work of art that shows or produces deep good feelings: 
    If you can't enjoy this music you've got no soul.
    For me her paintings somehow lack soul.
- → 
soul music 
- a person of a stated type: 
    She's a happy little soul.
    Some poor soul had fallen 500 metres to their death.
- no one: 
    By the time I arrived there wasn't a soul there.
- a deep understanding of and being proud of the culture of black people

joke /dʒəʊk/
- something, such as a funny story or trick, that is said or done in order to make people laugh: 
    Did I tell you the joke about the chicken crossing the road?
    She spent the evening cracking (= telling) jokes and telling funny stories.
    She tied his shoelaces together for a joke.
    I hope Rob doesn't tell any of his dirty jokes (= jokes about sex) when my mother's here.
    He tried to do a comedy routine, but all his jokes fell flat (= no one laughed at them).
    Don't you get (= understand) the joke?
- a person or thing that is very bad or silly: 
    Our new teacher's a joke - he can't even control the class.
    The new software is a complete joke - it keeps crashing.
    The test was a joke (= was very easy) - everyone finished in less than an hour.
- to say funny things: 
    They joked and laughed as they looked at the photos.
    It's more serious than you think, so please don't joke about it.
    "I didn't expect to be out so soon", he joked, after spending nine months in hospital.
- If you think that someone is joking, you think that they do not really mean what they say: 
    I thought he was joking when he said Helen was pregnant, but she really is.
    She wasn't joking (= she was serious) when she said she was going to move out of the house.
idioms:
 be no joke
 get/go beyond a joke
 the joke is on sb
 make a joke of sth
 take a joke
 joking apart/aside
 only joking!
 you must be joking
 you're joking!

service /ˈsɜː.vɪs/
- a government system or private organization that is responsible for a particular type of activity, or for providing a particular thing that people need: 
    the postal service
    the National Park Service
    the National Health Service
    the ambulance/prison service
    I've worked in public health services throughout my career.
- the fact that a system is working: 
    There is a very limited bus service on Sundays.
    We hope to be operating a normal service as soon as possible.
- a place at the side of a large road at which fuel, food, drink, and other things that people want on their journey are sold: 
    We stopped at the services to get fuel.
- the act of dealing with customers in a shop, restaurant, or hotel by taking their orders, showing or selling them goods, etc.: 
    The only trouble with this café is that the service is so slow.
    You should leave a generous tip to reward good service.
- an amount of money charged for serving a customer in a restaurant, often paid directly to the waiter: 
    There is a ten percent service charge included in the bill.
- work that someone does or time that someone spends working for an organization: 
    These teenagers all do community service in their free time.
    She was given the award for a lifetime of public service.
    her service on a jury
- a business that offers a particular type of help or work: 
    Why don't you call the babysitting service?
    a laundry/ironing service
- a government department that is responsible for a particular area of activity: 
    the diplomatic service
    the security services
- the particular skills that someone has and can offer to others: 
    I may be needing the services of a surveyor soon, as I'm buying a house.
- in use: 
    The battleship has been in service since 1965.
- to be employed as a servant: 
    Her mother was in service.
- (work in) the armed forces: 
    He joined the air force in 1964 and spent ten years in the service.
    All men under 35 were told to report for military service.
    Service personnel are subject to the Official Secrets Act.
- the army, navy, and/or air force: 
    a career in the services
- fighting in a war: 
    He was the first member of his regiment to die while on active service.
- a formal religious ceremony: 
    A memorial service is being held on Sunday for victims of the explosion.
- in sports such as tennis, the act of hitting the ball to the other player to start play: 
    She has a very fast service.
- a set of objects such as plates, cups, or other things that are used in providing and eating food: 
    a 24-piece dinner service
    a tea service
- a check and repair of a vehicle or machine that is done after regular periods: 
    She took the car in for a service yesterday.
- to examine a machine and repair any damaged parts: 
    I'm taking the car in to have it serviced this afternoon.
- to make payments to pay back a debt: 
    The country is still spending $3 million a week servicing debt.
- to provide services to or for someone: 
    We're quite happy to service our customers wherever they are.
    Together they service 46 buildings, including 37 schools.
- to provide transport, communications, etc. systems in an area: 
    Wembley stadium is serviced by Wembley Stadium, Wembley Park and Wembley Central stations.
    The village is small, unspoilt and well serviced.
idioms:
 be of service (to sb)
 do sb a service

magic /ˈmædʒ.ɪk/
- the use of special powers to make things happen that would usually be impossible, such as in stories for children: 
    The group is known for its belief in witchcraft and magic.
    As if by magic/Like magic, the car changes into a boat when it hits the water.
- the skill of performing tricks to entertain people, such as making things appear and disappear and pretending to cut someone in half: 
    He's a comedian who also does magic.
- a special and exciting quality that makes something seem different from ordinary things: 
    Although the film was made 50 years ago, it has lost none of its magic.
    No one could fail to be charmed by the magic of this beautiful city.
- with special powers: 
    The witch put a magic spell on the prince and turned him into a frog.
    I'll show you a magic trick.
- happening in an unusual or unexpected way, or easily or quickly: 
    There's no magic solution to the problem.
    There's no magic formula for winning - just lots of hard work.
- used when you think something is very good and you like it a lot: 
    "Kate's having a party on Saturday night." "Magic!"
idioms:
 a magic touch

uncle /ˈʌŋ.kəl/
- the brother of someone's mother or father, or the husband of someone's aunt or uncle: 
    I have lots of uncles and aunts.
    We invited my Uncle Steve over.
    Did you bring me a present, Uncle Jack?
- any male adult that you know who is older than you: 
    John Uncle

promise /ˈprɒm.ɪs/
- to tell someone that you will certainly do something: 
    He promised faithfully to call me every week.
    The government have promised that they'll reduce taxes.
    Promise me (that) you won't tell him.
    I'll look for some while I'm at the shops but I'm not promising anything.
    Can I have that book back when you've finished because I've promised it (= I have said I will give it) to Sara.
    Her parents promised her a new car if she passed her exams.
    I've promised myself a long bath when I get through all this work.
    "I'll come round and see you every day," she promised.
    "I won't do anything dangerous." "You promise?" "I promise."
    "I won't have time to take you shopping this afternoon." "But you promised!"
- If something promises to be good, exciting, etc. it is expected to be good, exciting, etc.: 
    It promises to be a really exciting game.
- the act of saying that you will certainly do something: 
    I'll put my things away tonight - and that's a promise!
    I'll try to get back in time, but I'm not making any promises.
- to do/not do what you said that you would do: 
    If I make a promise, I like to keep it.
- the idea that someone or something is likely to develop successfully and that people expect this to happen: 
    His English teacher had written on his report that he showed great promise.
    As a child I was quite a good dancer, but I didn't fulfil my early promise.
idioms:
 promise sb the earth/moon
 promises, promises!

public /ˈpʌb.lɪk/
- relating to or involving people in general, rather than being limited to a particular group of people: 
    Public opinion (= the opinions of most people) has turned against him.
    Is it really in the public interest (= useful to people) to publish this information?
    We need to increase public awareness of the disease.
    Peaceful demonstrations that do not cause a public nuisance (= do not harm other people) are a fundamental right in any truly democratic country.
    The government has had to bow to public pressure on the issue.
    The information only became public after his death.
    The results will not be made public (= told to everyone) until tomorrow.
- provided by the government from taxes to be available to everyone: 
    public funds/services/spending
    public buildings
    a public library
    He is unlikely to hold public office (= have an important job in national or local government).
- A public place is one where a lot of people are: 
    It's too public here - let's go back to my room to talk.
- all ordinary people: 
    The public has a right to know about this.
    The palace and its grounds are open to the public (= people can visit) during the summer months.
    When will the product be available to the general public (= all ordinary people)?
    Members of the public were asked about their shopping habits.
- the group of people who are involved with you or your organization, especially in a business relationship: 
    Newspapers publish these outrageous stories because they know what their public wants.
- in a place where people can see you: 
    I'd never behave like that in public.
idioms:
 be in the public eye
 go public
 go public (with sth)
 public enemy number one/no. 1

bother /ˈbɒð.ər/
- to make the effort to do something: 
    He hasn't even bothered to write.
    You could have phoned us but you just didn't bother.
    Don't bother making the bed - I'll do it later.
    You'd have found it if you'd bothered looking/to look.
    You won't get any credit for doing it, so why bother?
- If you can't be bothered doing/to do something, you are too lazy or tired to do it: 
    I can't be bothered to iron my clothes.
    Most evenings I can't be bothered cooking.
- to make someone feel worried or upset: 
    Does it bother you that he's out so much of the time?
    Living on my own has never bothered me.
    I don't care if he doesn't come - it doesn't bother me.
    It bothers me that he doesn't seem to notice.
- to annoy or cause problems for someone: 
    Don't bother your father when he's working.
    I'm sorry to bother you, but could you help me lift this suitcase?
    I didn't want to bother her with work matters on her day off.
    The noise was beginning to bother us, so we left.
    She threatened to call the police if he didn't stop bothering her.
- trouble or problems: 
    I can take you there - it's really no bother.
    Some people don't get married because they don't want the bother (= they don't want to make the effort that is necessary).
    Please don't go to any bother on my account (= don't make any special effort for me).
    It hardly seems worth the bother to go all that way just for two nights.
    I had a bit of bother getting hold of his phone number.
- an annoying person or situation: 
    I'm sorry to be a bother, but could I have that number again?
- used to express anger: 
    Oh bother! It's raining and I left my umbrella at home.

island /ˈaɪ.lənd/
- a piece of land completely surrounded by water: 
    a desert island
    a Pacific island
    They live on the large Japanese island of Hokkaido.
- a particular place that is peaceful, calm, etc., when other surrounding places are the opposite
- → 
traffic island 

seriously /ˈsɪə.ri.əs.li/
- badly or severely: 
    Badly cooked shellfish can make you seriously ill.
    He wasn't seriously injured - he just got a few cuts and bruises.
- in a serious way, not joking: 
    Seriously now, did he really say that or are you just being silly?
    You're not seriously thinking of leaving, are you?
- to consider a person, subject, or situation to be important or dangerous and worth your attention or respect: 
    The police have to take any terrorist threat seriously.
    You don't take anything seriously, do you? It's all one big joke to you.
    She's sick of being seen as a sex symbol and wants to be taken seriously as an actress.
    These young actors take themselves so seriously!
- very: 
    They do some seriously good desserts there.
    That boy is seriously stupid.

cell /sel/
- the smallest basic unit of a plant or animal
- a small room with not much furniture, especially in a prison or a monastery or convent
- a device for producing electrical energy from chemical energy
- a 
cell phone : 
    Call me on my cell.
- a small part of something: 
    the cells of a honeycomb
- a small group that is part of a political movement, especially one that is secret or plans violent action: 
    a terrorist cell

lead /liːd/
lead | led | led uk


Your browser doesn't support HTML5 audio






/led/ us


Your browser doesn't support HTML5 audio






/led/
- to control a group of people, a country, or a situation: 
    I think we've chosen the right person to lead the expedition.
    I've asked Gemma to lead the discussion.
    Who will be leading the inquiry into the accident?
- (especially in sports or other competitions) to be in front, to be first, or to be winning: 
    After 30 minutes the challengers were leading by two goals.
    With two laps to go Ngomo led by less than two seconds.
    The Lions are leading the Hawks 28–9.
- to cause someone to do something, especially something bad: 
    The brochure led me to believe that the price included home delivery.
    It's worrying that such a prominent politician is so easily led.
    He was a weak man, led astray by ambition.
- to show the way to a group of people, animals, vehicles, etc. by going in front of them: 
    I don't know the way, so you'd better lead.
    If you lead in the jeep, we'll follow behind on the horses.
- To lead a group of moving people or vehicles is to walk or drive in front of them: 
    The local youth band will lead the parade this weekend.
    A large black hearse led the funeral procession.
- to take someone somewhere, by going with them: 
    She led them down the hall.
    The waiter led us to our table.
    Our guide led us through the mountains.
- to take hold of a person or animal and take him, her, or it somewhere: 
    She took the child by the hand and led him upstairs to bed.
    He led the horse out of the stable.
- to show the way by going in front: 
    You've been there before - why don't you lead the way?
- to make more progress than other people in the development of something: 
    The company has been leading the way in network applications for several years.
- (especially of roads, paths, doors, signs, information, etc.) to go in a particular direction or have a particular result, or to allow or cause this: 
    There's a track that leads directly to the reservoir.
    The door leads out onto a wide, shady terrace.
    A narrow trail of blood led directly into the cave.
    This information led the police to a house near the harbour.
- to live a particular type of life: 
    He was able to lead a normal life, despite the illness.
    We certainly don't lead a life of luxury but we're not poor either.
- a winning position during a race or other situation where people are competing: 
    For the first time in the race Harrison is in the lead.
    With a final burst of speed she went/moved into the lead.
    After last night's win Johnson has taken (over) the lead in the championship table.
    By the end of the day's play Davies had a lead of three points.
- the act of showing a person or group of people what to do: 
    We'll go through the dance routine again - follow my lead (= do what I do).
- a piece of information that allows a discovery to be made or a solution to be found: 
    A lead from an informer enabled the police to make several arrests.
- the main part or actor in a film or play
- a wire covered in plastic and used to connect electrical equipment to the electricity supply
- a piece of rope, chain, etc. tied to an animal, especially to a dog at its collar when taking it for a walk: 
    Please keep your dog on a lead when on the beach.
- used to describe the main performer or part in a performance: 
    Who played the lead role in the movie?
    The lead guitarist was good.
- a chemical element that is a very heavy, soft, dark grey, poisonous metal, used especially in the past on roofs and for pipes and also for protection against radiation: 
    lead pipes
- (the narrow strip of) coloured material, usually black and made of graphite, in the centre of a pencil
idioms:
 lead sb a (merry) dance
 lead sb by the nose
 lead sb up the garden path
 lead the field/pack/world
 go down like a lead balloon
phrasal verbs:
 lead off
 lead sb on
 lead to sth
 lead up to sth
 lead with sth

broken /ˈbrəʊ.kən/
- past participle of break
- damaged, no longer able to work: 
    He attacked the man with a broken bottle.
    My watch is broken.
    Careful - there's broken glass on the floor.
- suffering emotional pain that is so strong that it changes the way you live, usually as a result of an unpleasant event: 
    He was a broken man after his wife died.
- interrupted or not continuous: 
    He tried to explain what had happened in broken English (= not spoken easily and stopping a lot) .
- destroyed or ended: 
    a broken engagement
    She comes from a broken home (= one where the parents have separated).
- (of a law, rule, or promise) not obeyed or not kept: 
    a broken promise

advice /ədˈvaɪs/
- an opinion that someone offers you about what you should do or how you should act in a particular situation: 
    Steven gave me some good advice.
    I think I'll take your advice (= do what you suggest) and get the green dress.
    Can I give you a piece of advice?
    I need some advice on which computer to buy.
    My advice is to go by train.
    We went to Paris on Sarah's advice.

somehow /ˈsʌm.haʊ/
- in a way or by some means that is not known or not stated: 
    It won't be easy, but we'll get across the river somehow.
    I'm not sure how, but somehow or other we'll raise the money.
- for a reason that is not clear: 
    I know what we're doing is legal, but somehow it doesn't feel right.

push /pʊʃ/
- to use physical pressure or force, especially with your hands, in order to move something into a different position, usually one that is further away from you: 
    Can you help me move this table? You push and I'll pull.
    The window sticks - you have to push hard to open it.
    He helped me push my car off the road.
    He pushed his plate away from him, refusing to eat any more.
    She pushed her hair out of her eyes.
    I tried to push the door open but it was stuck.
    It isn't clear whether he fell off the balcony or was pushed.
    To turn the television on, you just push (= press) this button.
    He pushed the money into my hand (= forcefully gave me the money), saying, "Please take it."
    We pushed the boat off from (= moved the boat forward by using pressure against) the river bank.
- to move forcefully, especially in order to cause someone or something that is in your way to move, so that you can go through or past them: 
    Stop pushing - wait your turn.
    She pushed through the crowd.
    I'm sorry - I didn't mean to push in front of you.
    The celebrities pushed past the waiting journalists, refusing to speak to them.
    In the final lap of the race, he managed to push (= move strongly) ahead.
    Weeds push (= grow strongly) up through the cracks in the concrete.
    They pushed (= forcefully made) their way to the front.
- When an army pushes in a particular direction, it moves forward in that direction: 
    The invading troops have pushed further into the north of the country.
- to forcefully persuade or direct someone to do or achieve something: 
    Her parents pushed her into marrying him.
    The school manages to push most of its students through their exams.
    If we want an answer from them by Friday, I think we're going to have to push them for it.
    We had to push them to accept our terms, but they finally agreed to the deal.
    You'll never be successful if you don't push yourself (= work) harder.
- to advertise something repeatedly in order to increase its sales: 
    They're really pushing their new car.
- to sell illegal drugs: 
    He was arrested for pushing drugs to schoolchildren.
- to send information over the internet without receiving a request for it first
- the act of moving someone or something by pressing them with your hands or body: 
    Get on the swing and I'll give you a push.
    I gave the door a hard push, but it still wouldn't open.
    I can order all these goods at the push of a button (= by pushing a button).
- a strong movement towards a place: 
    The army is continuing its push (= advance) towards the capital.
- a determined attempt to get an advantage over other companies in business: 
    The company plans to make a big push into the European market next spring.
    The hotel is making a major push to attract customers.
- encouragement to make someone do something: 
    My mother had always wanted to learn how to paint - she just needed a gentle push.
- a lot of advertising: 
    This film is unlikely to attract large audiences unless it gets/it is given a big push in the media.
idioms:
 be pushing up (the) daisies
 push your luck
 push the boat out
 at a push
 get the push
 give sb the push
 if/when push comes to shove
phrasal verbs:
 push sb around
 push ahead
 push along
 push sb/sth aside
 push sth back
 push for sth
 push (sth) forward
 push yourself forward
 push in
 push off
 push on
 push sb out
 push sb/sth over
 push sth through
 push (sb) toward(s) sth
 push sth up/down

concern /kənˈsɜːn/
- to cause worry to someone: 
    The state of my father's health concerns us greatly.
    It concerns me that he hasn't been in contact.
- to be important to someone or to involve someone directly: 
    Matters of pollution and the environment concern us all.
    What I have to say to Amy doesn't concern you.
- If a story, film, or article concerns a particular subject, person, etc., it is about that person or subject: 
    The documentary concerns a woman who goes to China as a missionary.
- to become involved with something, or worried about something: 
    There's no need for you to concern yourself with what happened.
    Don't concern yourself. She'll be home soon.
- something you write at the start of a formal letter or notice when you do not know exactly who it should be sent to
- a worried or nervous feeling about something, or something that makes you feel worried: 
    Concern for the safety of the two missing teenagers is growing.
    There's a lot of public concern about/over dangerous toxins recently found in food.
    My concern is that you're not getting enough work done.
- a company: 
    a family concern
    It started slowly, but the company is now a going concern (= doing business effectively).
- something that is important to you, or the fact of being important: 
    His concern to appear sophisticated amused everyone.
    The company's sole concern is to ensure the safety of its employees.
    There's a matter of some concern that I have to discuss with you.
- something that involves or affects you or is important to you: 
    What were the major concerns of the writers from this period?
    I don't want to hear about it - it's no concern of mine!
    "What's happening?" "That's none of/not any of your concern."
- to be important: 
    The results of the election are of concern to us all.

usually /ˈjuː.ʒu.ə.li/
- in the way that most often happens: 
    He usually gets home about six o'clock.
    I usually just have a sandwich for lunch.
    Is your friend usually so rude?
    Usually we go skiing in February.
    "Do you cook your own meals in the evenings?" "Usually."

boss /bɒs/
- the person who is in charge of an organization and who tells others what to do: 
    She was the boss of a large international company.
    I started up my own business and now I'm my own boss (= I work for myself and no one tells me what to do).
    Who's the boss (= the person who makes all the important decisions) in your house?
- a raised rounded decoration, such as on a shield or a ceiling
- to tell someone what to do a lot: 
    I wish he'd stop bossing me around/about.
    He enjoys bossing the younger children.
- to be in control of something, especially a sports game: 
    He's a player who knows how to boss games.
    Germany bossed the second half.
- very good or excellent: 
    It was a boss party.
idioms:
 like a boss

rule /ruːl/
- an accepted principle or instruction that states the way things are or should be done, and tells you what you are allowed or are not allowed to do: 
    A referee must know all the rules of the game.
    The first/most important rule in life is always to appear confident.
    Before you start your own business you should be familiar with the government's rules and regulations.
    You must follow/obey/observe the rules.
    You must not break the rules.
    In special cases the manager will bend/stretch the rules (= allow the rules to be broken slightly).
    You can trust Ruth because she always plays (it) by/goes by/does things by the rules (= follows instructions, standards, or rules).
    It's against the rules (of/in boxing) to hit below the belt.
    It's a club rule that new members must sing a song.
- a period of time during which a particular person or group is in control of a country: 
    The period of Fascist rule is one people try to forget.
    We don't want one-party rule - we want rule by the people.
- to control or be the person in charge of something such as a country: 
    Most modern kings and queens rule (their countries) only in a formal way, without real power.
    She rules her household with an iron hand/fist (= severely).
- to be the most important and controlling influence on someone: 
    Love ruled supreme in her heart.
    The desperate desire to go to Moscow ruled their lives.
- to decide officially: 
    Only the Appeal Court can rule on this point.
    The judge ruled for/in favour of/against the defendant.
    The government has ruled that the refugees must be deported.
    The courts have ruled his brave action illegal.
- to draw a straight line using something that has a straight edge: 
    She ruled two red lines under the title.
- the usual situation: 
    In England, it often seems that rain is the rule all year long.
idioms:
 as a (general) rule
 make it a rule
 rule of thumb
 rules are made to be broken
 be ruled by sb
 rule OK
 rule the roost
phrasal verbs:
 rule sth or sb in
 rule sth or sb out
 rule sth out

summer /ˈsʌm.ər/
- the season of the year between spring and autumn when the weather is warmest, lasting from June to September north of the equator and from December to March south of the equator: 
    We have breakfast on the balcony in (the) summer.
    Last summer they went to Australia, and two summers ago they went to Brazil.
    That year it was a hot, dry summer.
    summer weather/sun
    a summer/summer's day
- to spend the summer in a particular place: 
    If your cactus has summered outdoors, move it into the garage or house when overnight temperatures drop below 65°F.

thirty /ˈθɜː.ti/
- the number 30: 
    twenty-nine, thirty, thirty-one
    She got married when she was thirty (years old).

risk /rɪsk/
- the possibility of something bad happening: 
    In this business, the risks and the rewards are high.
    There's a high risk of another accident happening in this fog.
    The risk (that) we might fail made us work twice as hard.
    It's always a risk starting up a new business.
    The company is quite a good risk (= safe to lend money to).
    We want clean rivers and lakes, where you can swim without risk to your health.
    It's a low/high-risk strategy (= one that is safe/not safe).
- something bad that might happen: 
    This wire is a safety/fire risk.
    His employers thought he was a security risk (= he might tell their secrets to a competitor).
- in a dangerous situation: 
    All houses within 100 metres of the seas are at risk of flooding.
- used to mean that you are responsible for any damage, loss, or difficulty: 
    Drivers are reminded that they leave their cars here at their own risk.
- to do something that might be dangerous: 
    Don't take any risks - just call the police.
    You're running a big risk if oil prices drop sharply.
- to do something although there is a chance of a bad result: 
    "It's dangerous to cross here." "I'll just have to risk it."
    He risked losing his house when his company went bankrupt.
- If you risk something important, you cause it to be in a dangerous situation where you might lose it: 
    I'm not risking my life (informal neck) in that old car.
    He risked life and limb to get the cat down from the tree.
    She was prepared to risk everything on a last throw of the dice.
idioms:
 at the risk of doing sth
 run the risk of doing sth

letting /ˈlet.ɪŋ/
- a room or building that can be rented: 
    The town offers several holiday lettings.

officer /ˈɒf.ɪ.sər/
- a person in the armed forces who has a position of authority: 
    a naval officer
    a top-ranking officer
- a person who has a position of authority in an organization: 
    a careers/customs/personnel officer
- a member of the police force: 
    Two officers responded to the call at 282 Main Street.
    Officer Clarke
    "Do you know how fast you were driving, ma'am?" "No, officer."

support /səˈpɔːt/
- to agree with and give encouragement to someone or something because you want him, her, or it to succeed: 
    My father supported the LabourDemocratic Party all his life.
    The majority of people in the town strongly support the plans to build a new school.
    I think it's important to support local businesses by buying locally.
    We will always do our best to support our students to succeed.
- If you support a sports team or a sports player, you want them to win, and might show it by going to watch them play: 
    Which team do you support?
- to help someone emotionally or in a practical way: 
    Alcoholics Anonymous is a group which supports people who are trying to stop drinking too much alcohol.
    My family has always supported me in whatever I've wanted to do.
- to give a person the money they need in order to buy food and clothes and pay for somewhere to live: 
    He has a wife and four children to support.
- If you support an activity or a habit, you provide the money needed to pay for it: 
    The drug company is supporting cancer research.
    I don't know how they manage to support their expensive lifestyle.
    Some drug addicts turn to crime in order to support their habit.
- to provide the right conditions, such as enough food and water, for life: 
    The land is so poor here that it cannot support any crops.
- to hold something firmly or carry its weight, especially from below to stop it from falling: 
    The church dome is supported by/on marble pillars.
    When babies first learn to stand, they hold on to something to support themselves (= to stop themselves from falling).
    My ankle is weak, so I always put a bandage on it to support it when I play tennis.
    The Bank of England has taken measures to support the pound (= to stop it from being reduced in value).
- to help to show something to be true: 
    These figures support my argument.
    You can't make a statement like that without any supporting documentation.
- to accept something and allow it to happen: 
    The headteacher told the boys that he would not support that kind of behaviour.
- agreement with and encouragement for an idea, group, or person: 
    Environmental groups are fast gaining support among young people.
    We've succeeded in drumming up a lot of local support for our attempt to stop the superstore being built.
    I signed a petition in support of the campaign to end the marketing of baby formula in developing countries.
- emotional or practical help: 
    Liz gave me a lot of support when I lost my job.
    You've been a great support to my mum in this difficult time.
- the money someone needs in order to buy food and clothes and pay for somewhere to live: 
    He is dependent on his father for support .
- something that holds something firmly or carries its weight, especially from below to stop it from falling: 
    The floor is held up by wooden supports.
    I've hurt my wrist, so I've bandaged it to give it some support.
- a device worn to hold part of the body, especially a weak part, firmly in position: 
    Jim always wears a knee support when he goes running.
- something that shows that a fact is true: 
    This new evidence lends support to the theory that she was murdered.
    We had to send a doctor's report in support of our claim to the insurance company.

afternoon /ˌɑːf.təˈnuːn/
- the period that starts at about twelve o'clock or after the meal in the middle of the day and ends at about six o'clock or when the sun goes down: 
    It was a sunny afternoon.
    She works three afternoons a week at the library.
    It was on a Saturday afternoon.
    My baby usually sleeps in the afternoon.
    Let's go to the park this afternoon.
    I spoke to her yesterday afternoon.
    I'll meet you tomorrow afternoon at about 3.30.
    She's coming round on Wednesday afternoon.
    He's been in a bad mood all afternoon.
    She likes to have an afternoon nap.
    We got an early-/mid-/late-afternoon flight.
- a friendly way of greeting someone when you meet them in the afternoon: 
    Afternoon, Bob!

born /bɔːn/
- to come out of a mother's body, and start to exist: 
    She was born in 1950.
    We saw a lamb being born.
    Diana was born into an aristocratic family.
    Ann was born and brought up in Delaware.
- having started life in a particular way: 
    The toll of babies born with AIDS is rising.
    Stevie Wonder was born blind.
- If an idea is born, it starts to exist.
- existing as the result of something: 
    With a courage born of necessity, she seized the gun and ran at him.
- having a natural ability or liking: 
    a born writer/athlete
    I felt born to take care of animals.
- born in the way, place, or order mentioned: 
    newborn
    Ben Okri is a Nigerian-born poet and novelist.
    the first-born son
idioms:
 born and bred
 born with a silver spoon in your mouth
 not be born yesterday
 wish you had never been born

apologize /əˈpɒl.ə.dʒaɪz/
- to tell someone that you are sorry for having done something that has caused problems or unhappiness for them: 
    I must apologize to Isobel for my lateness.
    Trains may be subject to delay - we apologize for any inconvenience caused.
    She apologized profusely for having to leave at 3.30 p.m. 

seat /siːt/
- a piece of furniture or part of a train, plane, etc. that has been designed for someone to sit on: 
    Chairs, sofas and benches are different types of seat.
    Please have/take a seat (= sit down).
    A car usually has a driver's seat, a front/passenger seat and back/rear seats.
    My ticket says 22D but there's already someone in (= sitting on) that seat.
    Is this seat free/taken (= is anyone using it)?
    Would you keep (= stop anyone else from sitting in) my seat (for me) while I go get some food?
    Please stay in/keep your seats (= stay sitting down) until asked to leave.
    Could I book/reserve two seats (= arrange for them to be officially kept for me) for tomorrow evening's performance?
- the part of a piece of furniture or clothing on which a person sits: 
    I've spilled some coffee on the seat of the armchair.
    The seat of those trousers looks a little tight. Do you want to try a larger size?
- a person's bottom (= the part of the body that you sit on): 
    When trying out the bike, I had to stop often because my seat was sore.
- an official position as a politician or member of a group of people who control something: 
    She has a seat on the board of directors.
    He is expected to lose his seat on the city council in next month's elections.
    She won her seat in Parliament in 2004.
    He has a very safe seat (= a position that is very unlikely to be lost in an election).
- the place in an office where a particular person sits: 
    I'm sorry - he's not in his seat right now.
- a place on a course to study something: 
    On receipt of the tuition fees, the college will issue a letter confirming your seat on the course.
- a place that acts as a base or centre for an important activity: 
    The seat of government in the US is in Washington, DC.
    St Petersburg was the seat of the Russian Revolution.
- the way that a person sits when riding a horse: 
    Your security and your control of the horse depend greatly on having a good seat.
- to arrange for someone to have a particular seat: 
    The waiter greeted me with a big smile and seated us by the window.
- to sit somewhere: 
    "I'm so glad to see you!" she said, seating herself between Eleanor and Marianne.
- (of a building, room, table, or vehicle) to have enough seats for the stated number of people: 
    The new concert hall seats 1,500 people.
- with enough seats for the particular number of people: 
    a 2,000-seat theatre
idioms:
 bums on seats
 seat of learning
 by the seat of your pants

nervous /ˈnɜː.vəs/
- worried and anxious: 
    Do you feel/get nervous during exams?
    I was too nervous to speak.
    She's always been nervous around dogs.
    I was very nervous about driving again after the accident.
    He had/was of a nervous disposition.
- relating to the nerves: 
    He suffers from a nervous disorder.

across /əˈkrɒs/
- from one side to the other of something with clear limits, such as an area of land, a road, or a river: 
    She walked across the field/road.
    They're building a new bridge across the river.
    When I reached the river, I simply swam across.
- on the opposite side of: 
    The library is just across the road.
- in every part of a particular place or country: 
    Voting took place peacefully across most of the country.

song /sɒŋ/
- a usually short piece of music with words that are sung: 
    to sing a song
    a love/folk/pop song
- the act of singing, or singing when considered generally: 
    He was so happy he wanted to burst/break into song (= start singing).
- the musical sound that a bird makes: 
    bird song
    A thrush's song was the only sound to break the silence.
idioms:
 for a song
 make a song and dance about sth
 song and dance

charge /tʃɑːdʒ/
- to ask an amount of money for something, especially a service or activity: 
    How much/What do you charge for a haircut and blow-dry?
    The bank charged commission to change my traveller's cheques.
    They charge you $20 just to get in the nightclub.
    The local museum doesn't charge for admission.
- to record an amount that a customer has spent for them to pay at a later time, according to an agreement between a business and the customer: 
    Charge the bill to my account, please.
    Shall we charge the flowers to your account?
- (of the police) to make a formal statement saying that someone is accused of a crime: 
    She's been charged with murder.
    She is charged with murdering her husband.
- to publicly accuse someone of doing something bad: 
    The paper charged her with using the company's money for her own purposes.
- to move forward quickly and violently, especially towards something that has caused difficulty or anger: 
    The bull lowered its horns and charged.
    The violence began when the police charged (at) a crowd of demonstrators.
- to hurry from one place to another: 
    I've been charging about/around all day and I'm exhausted.
    He came charging up the stairs to tell me the good news.
- to put enough explosive into a gun to fire it once
- to order someone to do something: 
    He was charged with taking care of the premises.
- When a judge charges a jury, he or she explains the details of the law to them.
- to put electricity into an electrical device such as a battery: 
    She drove the car round the block to charge (up) its batteries.
    It's not working - I don't think the battery is charging.
- the amount of money that you have to pay for something, especially for an activity or service: 
    Is there a charge for children or do they go free?
    There's an admission charge of £5.
    They fixed my watch free of charge.
- a formal police statement saying that someone is accused of a crime: 
    The 19-year-old will be appearing in court on Thursday where she will face criminal charges.
    He has been arrested on a charge of murder.
    The police brought a charge of theft against him.
    The police have had to drop (= stop) charges against her because they couldn't find any evidence.
    He claimed he had been arrested on a trumped-up (= false) charge.
- the act of accusing someone of something bad: 
    The president responded angrily to the charge that she had lost touch with her country's people.
    Her refusal to condemn the violence laid/left her open to the charge of positive support for the campaign (= allowed people to say that she supported it).
- being the person who has control of or is responsible for someone or something: 
    Who will be in charge of the department when Sophie leaves?
    I left Jack in charge of the suitcases while I went to get the tickets.
- responsibility for controlling or caring for something: 
    Her ex-husband has charge of the children during the week and she has them at the weekend.
    His boss asked him to take charge of the office for a few days while she was away.
- a person, especially a child, who is in your care and who you are responsible for
- the amount of explosive to be fired at one time, or the bullet or other explosive object shot from a gun
- an attack in which people or animals suddenly run forward: 
    a charge of buffalo/elephants
    a police charge
- an order to do something
- the amount of electricity that an electrical device stores or that a substance carries
- If something is on charge, you are putting an amount of electricity into it: 
    Is it all right to leave/put the battery on charge overnight?

patient /ˈpeɪ.ʃənt/
- a person who is receiving medical care, or who is cared for by a particular doctor or dentist when necessary: 
    I'm a patient of Dr Stephens; please could I make an appointment to see her?
- having patience: 
    Dinner will be ready in half an hour - just be patient!
    Be patient with her - she's very young.

boat /bəʊt/
- a small vehicle for travelling on water: 
    a rowing/sailing boat
    a fishing boat
    We took turns to row the boat up the river.
- a ship: 
    Are you travelling by boat or by air?
    I'm taking the boat from Dover to Calais.

brain /breɪn/
- the organ inside the head that controls thought, memory, feelings, and activity: 
    Doctors tried desperately to reduce the swelling in her brain.
    The accident left him with permanent brain damage.
    His wife died from a brain tumour.
- used to refer to intelligence: 
    Marie has an amazing brain (= is very intelligent).
    That can't possibly be the right way to do it - use your brain!
    The poor child inherited his mother's brains and his father's looks.
    He's got brains but he's too lazy to use them (= he is intelligent but lazy).
- a very intelligent person, especially one who has spent a lot of time studying: 
    We have the best brains in the land working on this problem.
- the most intelligent person in a group, especially the person who plans what the group will do: 
    My little brother's the brains of the family.
- to hit someone on the head: 
    I'll brain you if you don't keep quiet.
idioms:
 have sth on the brain

hide /haɪd/
hide | hid | hidden
- to put something or someone in a place where that thing or person cannot be seen or found, or to put yourself somewhere where you cannot be seen or found: 
    She used to hide her diary under her pillow.
    A kilo of heroin was found hidden inside the lining of the suitcase.
    I like wearing sunglasses - I feel I can hide behind them.
- to prevent something from being seen: 
    He tries to hide his bald spot by sweeping his hair over to one side.
- to not show an emotion: 
    She tried to hide her disappointment at not getting the promotion.
- If you hide information from someone, you do not allow that person to know it: 
    I feel sure there's something about her past that she's trying to hide from me.
- the strong, thick skin of an animal, used for making leather
- a place where people can watch wild animals or birds without being noticed by them
idioms:
 hide your light under a bushel
phrasal verbs:
 hide out

general /ˈdʒen.ər.əl/
- involving or relating to most or all people, things, or places, especially when these are considered as a unit: 
    The general feeling is that justice was not served.
    There is general concern about rising crime rates.
    My general impression of the place was good.
    The talk is intended to be of general interest (= of interest to most people).
    Rain will become more general in the southeast during the afternoon.
- usually, or in most situations: 
    In general, men are taller than women.
    As a general rule, we don't allow children in the bar.
- considering the whole of someone or something, and not just a particular part of him, her, or it: 
    So, apart from the bad ankle, how are you in general?
- to be a good thing for the public: 
    The government will only say it is not in the general interest to reveal any more information.
- not detailed, but including the most basic or necessary information: 
    What he said was very general.
    The school aims to give children a general background in a variety of subjects.
    I'm not an expert, so I can only speak in general terms on this matter.
- things considered as a unit and without giving attention to details: 
    His book moves from the general to the particular.
- including a lot of things or subjects and not limited to only one or a few: 
    general knowledge
- used as part of the title of a job of someone who is in charge of a whole organization or company: 
    the general manager
    the General Secretary of the UN
- an officer of very high rank, especially in the army: 
    He was promoted to the rank of general.
    General Brown/Roger Brown
    Thank you, General.

nine /naɪn/
- the number 9: 
    The children go to bed at nine (o'clock).
    a nine-month prison sentence
- describing or relating to work that begins at nine o'clock in the morning and finishes at five, the hours worked in many offices from Monday to Friday: 
    a nine-to-five routine
    She's tired of working nine to five.
idioms:
 be a nine days' wonder
 done/dressed (up) to the nines
 the whole nine yards
 nine times out of ten

huge /hjuːdʒ/
- extremely large in size or amount: 
    They live in a huge house.
    The costs involved in building a spacecraft are huge.
    A huge number of people attended.
    His last three movies have all been huge successes.

breakfast /ˈbrek.fəst/
- a meal eaten in the morning as the first meal of the day: 
    What do you want for breakfast?
    Jane never eats breakfast.
    She arrived shortly after breakfast.
    Breakfast is served in the dining room from 8.30 till 10.00.
    I love to eat breakfast in bed on Saturdays.
- to eat breakfast: 
    She usually breakfasts alone.
    They breakfasted hurriedly on coffee and toast (= ate coffee and toast for breakfast).

horrible /ˈhɒr.ə.bəl/
- very unpleasant or bad: 
    He's got a horrible cold.
    What's that horrible smell?
    That was a horrible thing to say!
- very shocking and frightening: 
    a horrible crime

age /eɪdʒ/
- the period of time someone has been alive or something has existed: 
    Do you know the age of that building?
    What age (= how old) is your brother?
    I'd guess she's about my age (= she is about as old as I am).
    She was 74 years of age when she wrote her first novel.
    He left home at the age of 16.
    I was married with four children at your age.
    She's starting to show/look her age (= to look as old as she is).
    I'm really beginning to feel my age (= feel old).
    His girlfriend's twice his age (= twice as old as he is).
- said to someone to tell them to stop behaving like someone who is much younger
- the age at which someone is considered by the law to be old enough to agree to have sex with someone
- a particular period in time: 
    the Victorian age
    the modern age
    the nuclear age
- a very long time: 
    It takes ages to cook.
    I've been waiting for ages.
    It's been ages/an age since we last spoke.
- the fact of being or getting older: 
    Her back was bent with age.
    This cheese/wine improves with age.
    Her temper hasn't improved with age!
- If someone ages or something ages them, they look older: 
    She's aged since the last time we met.
- to develop in flavour or leave something to do this: 
    The brandy is aged in oak for ten years.
- used to form nouns that refer to the action or result of something: 
    blockage
    shrinkage
    wastage
    All breakages must be paid for.
- used to form nouns that refer to a state or condition: 
    bondage
    marriage
    shortage
- used to form nouns that are names of places: 
    orphanage
    vicarage
idioms:
 come of age

awful /ˈɔː.fəl/
- extremely bad or unpleasant: 
    He suffered awful injuries in the crash.
    We had awful weather.
    She has an awful boss.
    What an awful thing to say!
    Would life be so awful without a car?
    The food was awful.
    She'd been ill and she looked awful.
- very great: 
    I don't know an awful lot (= very much) about art, but I'm learning.
    Fortunately it won't make an awful lot of difference if I don't pass the test.
    It was an awful risk to take.

pleasure /ˈpleʒ.ər/
- enjoyment, happiness, or satisfaction, or something that gives this: 
    His visits gave his grandparents such pleasure.
    Why do so many boys take pleasure in torturing insects and small animals?
    It was such a pleasure to meet you.
    He wrote an article on the pleasures and pains of camping.
    Coffee is one of my few pleasures.
idioms:
 at His/Her Majesty's pleasure
 it's a pleasure
 with pleasure

driving /ˈdraɪ.vɪŋ/
- the ability to drive a car, the activity of driving, or the way someone drives: 
    a driving lesson/school
    She has to do a lot of driving in her job.
    Ashley passed her driving test first time!
- strong and powerful and therefore causing things to happen: 
    Driving ambition is what most great leaders have in common.
    She was always the driving force behind the plan.
- rain or snow that is falling fast and being blown by the wind: 
    Driving snow brought more problems on the roads last night.

system /ˈsɪs.təm/
- a set of connected things or devices that operate together: 
    a central heating system
- a set of computer equipment and programs used together for a particular purpose: 
    The system keeps crashing and no one is able to figure out why.
- a set of organs or structures in the body that have a particular purpose: 
    the immune system
    the nervous system
- the way that the body works, especially the way that it digests food and passes out waste products: 
    A run in the morning is good for the system - it wakes the body up and gets everything going.
- a way of doing things: 
    We'll have to develop a better filing system.
    Under this system, many people were prevented from voting.
    The legal system operates very differently in the US and Britain.
- a particular method of counting, measuring, or weighing things: 
    the metric system of measuring and weighing
- the intentional and organized use of a system: 
    There doesn't seem to be any system to the books on these shelves - they're certainly not in alphabetical order.
- unfair laws and rules that prevent people from being able to improve their situation: 
    He has his own ways of beating the system, making sure that he has good relationships with influential people.
idioms:
 get sth out of your system

sell /sel/
sell | sold | sold
- to give something to someone else in return for money: 
    I sold him my car/I sold my car to him for $600.
    We'll be selling the tickets at/for £50 each.
    The stall sells drinks and snacks.
- to be bought in the way or quantities that are mentioned; to be sold at the price mentioned : 
    These baskets sell well (= a lot of them are bought).
    Their last album sold over a hundred thousand copies.
    How much does the phone sell for?
- to persuade someone that an idea or plan is a good one and likely to be successful: 
    My boss is very old-fashioned and I'm having a lot of trouble selling the idea of working at home occasionally.
    The filmmakers sold me on the idea that my book would work on the screen.
    The chance of greater access to European markets would help sell the president the plan/sell the plan to the president.
    In an interview, you have to sell yourself to the employer. 
idioms:
 sell sb a bill of goods
 sell sb down the river
 sell sb/yourself/sth short
 sell your soul (to the devil)
phrasal verbs:
 sell sth off
 sell out
 sell (sb) out
 sell up

quit /kwɪt/
quit | present participle quitting | past tense and past participle quit
- to stop doing something or leave a job or a place: 
    Would you quit your job if you inherited lots of money?
    I'm going to quit smoking.
    Quit wasting my time!
    Press Q to quit the program.
phrasal verbs:
 quit on sb

dying /ˈdaɪ.ɪŋ/
- very ill and likely to die soon: 
    She nursed her dying husband for months.
- A dying tradition or industry is becoming much less common or important.
- happening at the time someone dies, or connected with that time: 
    Beethoven's dying words are said to have been "I shall hear in heaven."
- people who are about to die: 
    These nurses specialize in the care of the dying.

chief /tʃiːf/
- most important or main: 
    The chief problem we have in the area now is the spread of disease.
    The weather was our chief reason for coming here.
- highest in rank: 
    the chief fire officer/accountant
- the person in charge of a group or organization, or the ruler of a tribe: 
    a police chief
    A new chief of the security forces has just been appointed.
    Can you sign this form for me, chief?
idioms:
 too many chiefs and not enough Indians

faith /feɪθ/
- great trust or confidence in something or someone: 
    She has no faith in modern medicine.
    You'll cope - I have great faith in you.
    After the trial, his family said they had lost all faith in the judicial system.
    Politicians must start keeping their promises if they want to restore the people's faith in government.
- a particular religion: 
    the Muslim/Christian/Jewish/Buddhist faith
    They were persecuted for their faith.
    He was forced to practise his faith in secret.
    a multi-faith society
    They were brought up in the true faith (= the religion which the speaker believes is the only true one).
- strong belief in God or a particular religion: 
    Even in the bad times she never lost her faith.
    Her faith in God was shattered when her baby died.
    It's my faith that keeps me going.
idioms:
 accept/take sth on faith
 faith can move mountains
 have faith!
 keep faith with sth/sb
 put/place your faith in sth/sb

gay /ɡeɪ/
- sexually attracted to people of the same sex and not to people of the opposite sex: 
    gay rights
    Mark knew he was gay by the time he was fourteen.
    the gay and lesbian community
- happy: 
    We had a gay old time down at the dance hall.
- If a place is gay, it is bright and attractive: 
    The streets were gay and full of people.
- not good, reasonable, or suitable
- a gay person, especially a man
idioms:
 just gay enough

month /mʌnθ/
- a period of about four weeks, especially one of the twelve periods into which a year is divided: 
    I'll be away for a month from mid-June to mid-July.
    February is the shortest month.
    a two-month-old puppy
    The project will be finished in the next few months (= quite soon).
    They haven't been in contact with me for months (= a long time).
    Students have two months' vacation during the summer.
idioms:
 not in a month of Sundays

visit /ˈvɪz.ɪt/
- to go to a place in order to look at it, or to a person in order to spend time with them: 
    We visited a few galleries while we were in Prague.
    Will you visit me when I'm in hospital?
    When did you last visit the dentist/doctor?
- to go to a website on the internet
- an occasion when you visit a place or person: 
    We had a visit from the school inspector last week.
    I can't stop for a coffee - this is just a flying (= very short) visit.
- to visit a person or place, usually for a short time: 
    I think I'll pay a visit to the library while I'm in town.
phrasal verbs:
 visit sth on/upon sb
 visit with sb

screw /skruː/
- a thin, pointed piece of metal with a raised edge twisting round along its length and a flat top with a cut in it, used to join things together, especially pieces of wood
- an act of twisting or turning done to fasten or tighten something: 
    Give it another screw to make sure the lid doesn't come off while we're travelling.
- (a word used especially by prisoners) a prison guard
- the act of sex, or a sexual partner: 
    I never feel like a screw when I wake up in the morning.
    He's a really good screw.
- → 
thumbscrew 
- to fasten something using a screw: 
    Screw this piece of wood to the wall.
    Screw these two pieces together.
- to fasten something using an object similar to a screw: 
    We'll have to screw a hook into the wall.
- If something screws in/together, it fits or fastens together by being turned: 
    This light bulb screws in.
    The steel rods screw together.
- to tighten the muscles of your face or part of your face into a particular expression, especially one of disapproval or pain: 
    He screwed his eyes tight shut against the bright light.
    The woman at the breakfast table screwed her mouth into a grimace.
- to twist and crush something, especially paper or cloth, roughly with your hands: 
    She screwed the bag up and threw it in the bin.
    He screwed the letter into a ball and flung it away.
- to fasten something by turning it or twisting it: 
    Screw the lid firmly on to the jar and shake well.
- to cheat or deceive someone: 
    It was only after we'd had the car for a few days that we realized we'd been screwed by the dealer.
- to have sex with someone: 
    They say he's screwing the boss's wife.
idioms:
 have a screw loose
 put/tighten the screws on sb
 screw it/you/them!
 screw up your courage
phrasal verbs:
 screw around
 screw sth out of sb
 screw (sth) up
 screw sb up

letter /ˈlet.ər/
- a written message from one person to another, usually put in an envelope and sent by post: 
    I got a letter from the bank this morning.
- any of the set of symbols used to write a language, representing a sound in the language: 
    the letter D
- the exact words of the law and not its more important general meaning
- used to refer to a standard size of paper in the US, 8.5 inches by 11 inches: 
    Fliers are usually printed either on letter size or legal size paper.
idioms:
 to the letter

decide /dɪˈsaɪd/
- to choose something, especially after thinking carefully about several possibilities: 
    They have to decide by next Friday.
    It doesn't matter to me which one we have - you decide.
    In the end, we decided to go to the theatre.
    She decided (that) she would travel to India.
    I can't decide what to do.
    He can't decide whether to buy it.
    The committee decided in favour of (= made a formal judgment to choose) the cheapest option.
- to be the reason or situation that makes a particular result happen: 
    The weather decided the outcome of the tennis match.
    Tim's mistake decided the game (= caused him to lose).
phrasal verbs:
 decide on sth/sb

double /ˈdʌb.əl/
- twice the size, amount, price, etc., or consisting of two similar things together: 
    I ordered a double espresso (= two standard amounts in one cup).
    Go through the double doors and turn left.
    The word "cool" has a double "o" in the middle.
    Everything he says has a double meaning (= has two possible meanings).
    This painkiller is double strength (= has twice the normal amount of medicine).
    Sabiha's phone number is double three, one, five, double seven (= 331577).
- A double flower or plant is a flower with more than the usual number of petals: 
    a double primrose
- a person who looks exactly the same as someone else: 
    Hey, Tony, I met someone at a party last week who was your double.
- a game of tennis or a similar sport between two teams of two people: 
    men's/women's/mixed doubles
    Who won the men's doubles at Wimbledon this year?
- an occasion when a football team wins two major competitions in a single season: 
    Which was the first team to do the double in English football?
- in baseball, a hit that allows the batter (= person who hits the ball) to reach second base
- to become twice as much or as many, or to make something twice as much or many: 
    The government aims to double the number of students in higher education within 25 years.
    Company profits have doubled since the introduction of new technology.
- something that is twice the amount, size, strength, etc. of something else: 
    I paid double (= twice as much) for those trousers last week.
    Electrical goods are almost double the price they were a few years ago.
    "Would you like another whisky?" "Yes. Make it a double (= two standard amounts in one glass)."
- in two parts or layers: 
    Fold the blanket double (= so that it is in two layers) and then you won't be cold.
    They were bent double (= their heads and shoulders were bent forward and down) from decades of work in the fields.
- to have a problem with your eyes so that you see two of everything, usually because you are drunk or ill: 
    I started seeing double, then I fainted.
idioms:
 at/on the double
 do the double over sb
 double or quits
phrasal verbs:
 double back
 double down
 double down (on sth)
 double up
 double (up) as sth
 double (sb) up/over

sad /sæd/
sad | sadder | saddest
- unhappy or sorry: 
    I've just received some very sad news.
    She gave a sad smile.
    It's sad (that) the trip had to be cancelled.
    I'm so sad (that) you can't come.
    It's sad to see so many failures this year.
    I was sad to hear that they'd split up.
- If something looks sad, it looks worse than it should because it is not being cared for: 
    Give those flowers some water - they're looking a little sad.
- not satisfactory or pleasant: 
    The sad fact/truth is we can't afford to provide homes for all.
    a very sad state of affairs
- something you say when you are telling someone about something bad that happened: 
    Sad to say, the ring was never found.
- showing that you are not fashionable or interesting or have no friends: 
    You enjoy reading timetables? You sad man!
    Staying at home on a Saturday night is just sad.
- abbreviation for seasonal affective disorder: a medical condition in which a person does not have much energy and enthusiasm during the winter because of the reduced period of natural light
idioms:
 sadder but wiser

press /pres/
- to push something firmly, often without causing it to move permanently further away from you: 
    Press the button to start the machine.
    He pressed his face against the window.
    Can you press a little harder on my shoulders, please?
    The crowd pressed against the locked doors trying to get into the building.
    Press down firmly on the lever.
- to make clothes smooth by ironing them: 
    I'll just press these trousers.
- to put a weight on fruit in order to remove the juice: 
    to press grapes
- to make a CD, DVD, etc.: 
    Over 3,000 copies of the CD were pressed and sent out to college radio stations.
- to make something flat and firm by putting it under something heavy: 
    The children pressed some flowers.
    pressed turkey breast
- to try hard to persuade someone to do something: 
    The committee pressed him to reveal more information.
    He's pressing me for an answer.
    Can I press you further on (= persuade you to say more about) this issue?
- to complain officially about someone in a law court: 
    The family have decided not to press charges against him.
- to continue to try to make people accept your demands: 
    Once again he tried to press his case for promotion.
- newspapers and magazines, and those parts of television and radio that broadcast news, or reporters and photographers who work for them: 
    The incident has been widely reported in the press.
    press reports/coverage
    press reporters/photographers
    the local/national press
    The charity invited the press (= reporters and photographers) to a presentation of its plans for the future.
    The press was out in force at the awards ceremony.
    Freedom of the press (= the right of newspapers to publish news and opinions without being controlled by the government) must be upheld.
- the judgment that is given of someone or something in the newspapers or on radio or television: 
    What kind of press did his play get?
    The play has had a good/bad press.
    The play has had good/bad press.
- a business that prints and produces books and similar things: 
    Cambridge University Press
- a machine that is used for printing: 
    a printing press
- to start to be printed: 
    The newspaper will go to press at midnight.
- a firm push against something using the fingers: 
    To start the machine, just give this button a press.
- the act of making cloth smooth with an iron: 
    Can you give this shirt a quick press?
- a piece of equipment that is used to put weight on something in order to crush it, remove liquid from it or to make it flat: 
    a garlic/trouser/wine press
idioms:
 press sth/sb into service
 press home your advantage
 press the flesh
phrasal verbs:
 press on/ahead
 press sth on sb

forward /ˈfɔː.wəd/
- towards the direction that is in front of you: 
    She leaned forward to whisper something in my ear.
- towards the future: 
    I always look forward, not back.
- after that point: 
    From that day forward they never spoke to each other.
- used in expressions related to progress: 
    This is a big step forward for democracy.
- used, especially in business, to mean "in the future": 
    This could become a problem going forward.
- towards the direction that is in front of you: 
    forward motion/movement
- relating to the future: 
    forward planning/thinking
- confident and honest in a way that ignores the usual social rules and might seem rude: 
    Do you think it was forward of me to invite her to dinner when we'd only just met?
- to send a letter, etc., especially from someone's old address to their new address, or to send a letter, email, etc. that you have received to someone else: 
    I'll forward any mail to your new address.
    I'll forward his email to you if you're interested.
- a player who is in an attacking position in a team

fool /fuːl/
- a person who behaves in a silly way without thinking: 
    You fool, you missed your chance!
    He's a fool if he thinks she still loves him.
    He said he would pay me back and like a fool, I believed him.
    I felt like a fool when I dropped my phone in the toilet.
    He's a fool to think she still loves him.
- to trick someone or make someone appear stupid in some way
- to do something that makes other people think you are silly or not to be respected: 
    I got a little drunk and made a fool of myself.
- anyone: 
    Any fool could tell that she was joking.
- to not be stupid or easily deceived: 
    I notice Ed didn't offer to pay for her - he's no fool.
- said to mean that you think someone is being unwise: 
    "I lent Rhoda £100 and she hasn't paid me back." "More fool you - you know what she's like!"
- in the past, a person who was employed in the court of a king or queen to make the court laugh by telling jokes and doing funny things
- to behave in a silly way, often intentionally to make people laugh: 
    Stop acting the fool, I'm trying to talk to you.
- a sweet, soft food made of crushed fruit, cream, and sugar: 
    gooseberry fool
- to trick someone: 
    Don't be fooled by his appearance.
    She said she was doing it to help me, but I wasn't fooled.
    Tim was fooled into believing that he'd won a lot of money.
- used to tell someone that you do not believe what they have just said: 
    "Really, I'm very happy." "You could have fooled me."
- silly: 
    You've done some fool things in your time, but this beats everything.
phrasal verbs:
 fool around
 fool with sth

smell /smel/
smell | smelled or UK also smelt | smelled or UK smelt
- to have a particular quality that others can notice with their noses: 
    My hands smell of onions.
    That cake smells good.
    There's something in the fridge that smells mouldy.
    Your feet smell (= have an unpleasant smell). Why don't you wash them?
- to notice or discover something using the nose: 
    Come and smell these flowers!
    Can you smell something burning?
    Didn't you smell (that) the pie was burning?
    I can smell something rotten in the bottom of the fridge.
- to know about or be aware of a situation without having to be told about it: 
    Brenda can smell trouble a mile off (= a long time in advance).
- to have the ability to notice or discover that a substance is present by using your nose: 
    Humans can't smell as well as dogs.
    What I hate most about having a cold is not being able to smell.
- the characteristic of something that can be recognized or noticed using the nose: 
    What's your favourite smell?
    I love the smell of orange blossoms.
    The marketplace was filled with delightful smells.
    There's a delicious smell in here.
    I wish we could get rid of that smell (= bad smell) in the bathroom.
- the particular character or feeling that someone or something has: 
    She's still enjoying the sweet smell (= pleasant experience) of success after her victory in the world championships.
- the ability to notice or discover that a substance is present by using your nose: 
    Smell is one of the five senses.
    Dogs have a very good sense of smell.
- the act of putting your nose near something and breathing in so that you can discover its characteristics with your nose: 
    Have a smell of this perfume.
idioms:
 come up/out smelling of roses
 smell a rat
 smell blood
phrasal verbs:
 smell somewhere out
 smell sth/sb out

spell /spel/
- to form a word or words with the letters in the correct order: 
    How do you spell receive?
    Shakespeare did not always spell his own name the same way.
    Our address is 1520 Main Street, Albuquerque. Shall I spell that (out) (= say in the correct order the letters that form the word) for you?
    I think it's important that children should be taught to spell.
- to cause something bad to happen in the future: 
    The new regulations could spell disaster for small businesses.
    This cold weather could spell trouble for gardeners.
- to do something that someone else would usually be doing, especially in order to allow them to rest: 
    You've been driving for a while - do you want me to spell you?
- a period of time for which an activity or condition lasts continuously: 
    I lived in Cairo for a spell.
    She had a brief spell as captain of the team.
    I keep having/getting dizzy spells (= periods of feeling as if I'm turning around).
- a short period of a particular type of weather: 
    a spell of dry weather
    The weather forecast is for dry, sunny spells.
- a period when you do something that someone else would usually be doing, especially in order to allow them to rest: 
    If we take spells (with) doing the painting, it won't seem like such hard work.
- spoken words that are thought to have magical power, or (the condition of being under) the influence or control of such words: 
    The witch cast/put a spell on the prince and he turned into a frog.
    A beautiful girl would have to kiss him to break (= stop) the spell.
    Sleeping Beauty lay under the wicked fairy's spell until the prince woke her with a kiss.
idioms:
 be under sb's spell
phrasal verbs:
 spell sth out

memory /ˈmem.ər.i/
- the ability to remember information, experiences, and people: 
    a good/bad memory
    After the accident he suffered from loss of memory/memory loss.
    She has an excellent memory for names (= she can remember names easily).
- something that you remember from the past: 
    I have vivid memories of that evening.
    That tune really brings back memories (= makes me remember past events).
    School is just a dim/distant memory for me now (= something I cannot remember very well).
- the part of a computer in which information or programs are stored either permanently or temporarily, or the amount of space available on it for storing information: 
    My computer has a gigabyte of memory.
idioms:
 from memory
 have a memory like an elephant
 in memory of sb
 take a stroll/trip/walk down memory lane
 within your memory

mark /mɑːk/
- a small area on the surface of something that is damaged, dirty, or different in some way: 
    There were dirty marks on her trousers where she had wiped her hands.
    His fingers had left marks on the table's polished surface.
    She had a red mark on her arm where she'd burned herself.
- a typical feature or one that allows you to recognize someone or something: 
    Did your attacker have any distinguishing marks, such as a scar or a birthmark?
    You can tell which puppy is which from the marks (also markings) on their fur.
- a symbol that is used for giving information: 
    I've put a mark on the map where I think we should go for a picnic.
    What do those marks in the middle of the road mean?
- a written or printed symbol: 
    a question mark
    an exclamation mark
    punctuation marks
- a judgment, expressed as a number or letter, about the quality of a piece of work done at school, college, or university: 
    What mark did you get in the biology exam?
    Matilda's had very good marks in/for English throughout the year.
    You scored full marks in the test - ten out of ten!
- the level intended or wanted: 
    Sales have already passed the million mark.
- an action that is understood to represent or show a characteristic of a person or thing or feeling: 
    He took off his hat as a mark of respect for her dead husband.
    It's the mark of a gentleman to stand up when someone enters the room.
    I'd like to give this bottle of wine as a mark of appreciation for all the work you've done for us.
- a 
Deutschmark 
- to correct mistakes in and give points for a piece of work: 
    I was up half the night marking exam papers.
    You'll be marked down (= given a lower mark) for poor spelling and punctuation.
- to make a mark on something or someone: 
    Make sure you don't mark the walls while you're moving the furniture around.
    A dark carpet won't mark as easily as a light one.
- to represent or show a characteristic of a person or thing or feeling: 
    The band's songs have always been marked by controversial lyrics.
    The signing of the treaty marked a major milestone on the road to European union.
- to show respect for or commemorate: 
    Tomorrow's parade will mark the 50th anniversary of the battle.
- to show where something is by drawing or putting something somewhere: 
    I've marked the route around the town's one-way system on the map.
    I'd like everyone to mark their progress on the chart every week.
    X marks the spot where the treasure is buried.
- to prevent a member of the opposing team from taking control of the ball by staying close to them all the time
- used before a number to describe a particular version of a machine, especially one that is an improvement on the original version: 
    The car has enjoyed modest success since its launch, but the Mark 2 version is expected to be far more popular.
- used before a number to show what temperature you should use for cooking something in a gas oven: 
    Cook at Mark 5 for 20 minutes.
idioms:
 be off the mark
 be quick/slow off the mark
 be up to the mark
 leave your/its mark on sb/sth
 make a/your mark (on sth)
 on your marks, get set, go!
 be marked out as sth
 (you) mark my words!
 mark time
phrasal verbs:
 mark sth down
 mark sb down as sth
 mark sth/sb off
 mark sth off
 mark sth out
 mark sth up

slow /sləʊ/
- moving, happening, or doing something without much speed: 
    a slow runner/driver/reader
    She's a very slow eater.
    We're making slow but steady progress with the painting.
    The government was very slow to react to the problem.
    Business is always slow during those months because everyone's on holiday.
- used to describe a film, book, play, etc. that does not have much excitement and action: 
    His films are so slow they send me to sleep.
- A person might be described as slow if they are not very clever and do not understand or notice things quickly: 
    I feel so slow when I'm with Andrew - he's so much brighter than me.
    I was a bit slow on the uptake there - I didn't follow his reasoning at all.
- If a clock or watch is slow, it shows a time that is earlier than the real time: 
    That clock is ten minutes slow.
- (of an oven) cool: 
    Bake in the centre of a very slow oven, 150°C or 310°F, for an hour and a quarter.
- to reduce speed or activity, or to make something do this: 
    Business development has slowed in response to the recession.
    Traffic slows to a crawl (= goes so slowly it almost stops) during rush hour.
    The pilot was asked to slow his approach to the runway.
- at a slow speed: 
    I can't walk any slower.
    slow-moving traffic
    a slow-burning candle
    He drives too slow!
phrasal verbs:
 slow (sb/sth) down/up
 slow down

hungry /ˈhʌŋ.ɡri/
- wanting or needing food: 
    By four o'clock I felt/was really hungry.
    The children are always hungry when they get home from school.
    There are too many hungry people (= people without enough to eat) in the world.
    She often goes hungry herself (= does not eat) so that her children can have enough to eat.
    Digging the garden is hungry work (= makes you feel hunger).
- having a strong wish or desire for something: 
    She was so hungry for success that she'd do anything to achieve it.
    Journalists were hungry for details.
- having a strong wish or desire for the stated thing: 
    power-hungry politicians

board /bɔːd/
- a thin, flat piece of cut wood or other hard material, often used for a particular purpose: 
    Cut the vegetables on a chopping (US cutting) board.
    There was a "For Sale" board outside the house.
- a flat piece of wood or other hard material with a special pattern on it, used for playing games: 
    a chess board
- a 
blackboard  or 
whiteboard : 
    The teacher wrote her name up on the board.
- a 
noticeboard : 
    I stuck the notice (up) on the board.
- a 
diving board : 
    I dived off the top board today, Dad.
- the wooden fence surrounding the ice surface in ice hockey
- the stage in a theatre
- the group of people who are responsible for controlling and organizing a company or organization: 
    Every decision has to be approved by the board (of directors).
    She started in the firm after college and now she's on the board/a board member.
    The board of governors meet/meets once a month to discuss school policy.
- an official examination given by some medical and business organizations in the US: 
    This is my last chance to pass the boards.
- on a boat, train, or aircraft: 
    As soon as I was on board, I began to have second thoughts about leaving.
- meals provided when you are staying somewhere, usually for money
- to get onto or allow people to get onto a boat, train, or aircraft: 
    At London airport she boarded a plane to Australia.
    Will passengers waiting to board please go to the ticket counter?
- to pay to sleep and eat meals in someone's house: 
    During his stay in England he boarded with a family in Bath.
- to sleep and eat at school during the school term: 
    When you went to school were you a day student or did you board?
- to arrange for a pet animal to be temporarily taken care of at a place other than its home: 
    He boards the dog out when he goes on business trips.
idioms:
 across the board
 go by the board
 on board
 take sth on board
phrasal verbs:
 board sth up

position /pəˈzɪʃ.ən/
- the place where something or someone is, often in relation to other things: 
    Well, I've found our position on the map if you want to see where we are.
    You've moved the furniture around - the sofa is in a different position.
- (in team sports) the part someone plays in a game, relating to the area of the field in which they mostly play: 
    I didn't know you played hockey - what position do you play?
- the place where people are sent in order to carry out a course of action: 
    The troops took up their battle positions at the front line.
    As soon as his officers were in position/had moved into position, the police commander walked up the path towards the house.
- a situation: 
    My financial position is somewhat precarious at the moment.
    When two of your best friends argue, it puts you in a very awkward position.
- to be able to do something, usually because you have the necessary experience, authority, or money: 
    I'm not in a position to reveal any of the details of the project at present.
    I'm sure they'd like to help her out financially, but they're not in a position to do so.
- a rank or level in a company, competition, or society: 
    Whether or not you're given a car depends on your position in the company.
    She finished the race in third position.
- a job: 
    She applied for a position in the firm that I work for.
- the way in which something is arranged: 
    Keep the bottles in an upright position.
    Rotate it slowly from the horizontal into a vertical position.
- the way in which someone is lying, sitting, or standing: 
    This is not a very comfortable position.
    I go to sleep on my back but I always wake up in a different position.
    You might feel more comfortable in a sitting position.
- an opinion: 
    What's the company's position on recycling?
    He takes the position (= believes) that individuals have a responsibility to look after themselves.
- to put something or someone in a particular place: 
    The army had been positioned to the north and east of the city.
    When it came to seating people for dinner, I positioned myself as far away from him as possible.

hearing /ˈhɪə.rɪŋ/
- an official meeting that is held to collect the facts about an event or problem: 
    A disciplinary hearing will examine charges of serious professional misconduct against three surgeons.
    I think we should give him a (fair) hearing (= we should listen to what he wants to say).
- the ability to hear: 
    He's getting old and his hearing isn't very good.
- able to hear: 
    We wanted to create something that both deaf and hearing audiences could enjoy.

rose /rəʊz/
- past simple of
rise 
- a garden plant with thorns on its stems and pleasant-smelling flowers, or a flower from this plant: 
    a rose bush
    She sent him a bunch of red roses.
- a circular object with small holes in it that is put on the end of a watering can (= a container used for pouring water on plants)
- a pink colour: 
    The houses were painted various shades of rose.
- having a pink colour
- a pink wine
idioms:
 coming up roses
 not all roses
 put the roses (back) into sb's cheeks
 look at/see sth through rose-coloured/rose-tinted glasses

kitchen /ˈkɪtʃ.ən/
- a room where food is kept, prepared, and cooked and where the dishes are washed: 
    We usually eat breakfast in the kitchen.
    the kitchen table
    a new fitted kitchen (= cupboards that look the same attached to the walls and floor in the kitchen)

force /fɔːs/
- physical, especially violent, strength, or power: 
    The force of the wind had brought down a great many trees in the area.
    She slapped his face with unexpected force.
    Teachers aren't allowed to use force in the classroom.
    The police were able to control the crowd by sheer force of numbers (= because there were more police than there were people in the crowd).
- in large numbers: 
    Photographers were out in force at the White House today.
- in scientific use, (a measure of) the influence that changes movement: 
    the force of gravity
- to work with someone else in order to achieve something that you both want
- (a person or thing with a lot of) influence and energy: 
    He was a powerful force in politics.
    Fishermen are always at the mercy of the forces of nature (= bad weather conditions).
- If an organization or a person is described as a force to be reckoned with, it means that they are powerful and have a lot of influence: 
    The United Nations is now a force to be reckoned with.
- If you do something out of force of habit, you do it without thinking because you have done it so many times before.
- a group of people organized and trained, especially for a particular purpose: 
    the security forces
    the work force
    He joined the police force right after graduating.
- the military organizations for air, land, and sea
- (of laws, rules, or systems) existing and being used: 
    New driving regulations are going to come into force this year.
- to make something happen or make someone do something difficult, unpleasant, or unusual, especially by threatening or not offering the possibility of choice: 
    I really have to force myself to be nice to him.
    You can't force her to make a decision.
    Hospitals are being forced to close departments because of lack of money.
    You could tell he was having to force back the tears (= stop himself from crying).
    I didn't actually want any more dessert, but Julia forced it on me (= made me accept it).
    I couldn't stay at their flat - I'd feel as if I was forcing myself on them (= making them allow me to stay).
    You never tell me how you're feeling - I have to force it out of you (= make you tell me)!
- If plants or vegetables are forced, they are made to grow faster by artificially controlling growing conditions such as the amount of heat and light: 
    forced strawberries
- to manage, with difficulty, to laugh or smile: 
    I managed to force a smile as they were leaving.
- to take action to make certain that an urgent problem or matter is dealt with now: 
    If the management wouldn't listen to their demands, they would have to force the issue by striking.
- to use physical strength or effort to make something move or open: 
    Move your leg up gently when you're doing this exercise, but don't force it.
    If you force the zip, it'll break.
    She forced her way through the crowd.
- to break a lock, door, window, etc. in order to allow someone to get in: 
    I forgot my key, so I had to force a window.
    The police had forced open the door because nobody had answered.
    The burglar forced an entry (= broke a window, door, etc. to get into the house).
idioms:
 the forces of evil
 force sb's hand

fly /flaɪ/
fly | flew | flown
- When a bird, insect, or aircraft flies, it moves through the air: 
    The poor bird couldn't fly because it had a broken wing.
    As soon as it saw us, the bird flew away/off.
- to travel by aircraft, or to go somewhere or cross something in an aircraft: 
    We flew to Paris.
    We fly from/out from/out of La Guardia, but fly back (in)to JKF.
    We are flying at a height of 36,000 feet.
    She has to fly thousands of miles every year for her job.
    Who was the first person to fly (across) the Atlantic?
- to use a particular company to travel by aircraft: 
    I usually fly Lufthansa/Japan Airlines/El Al.
- to transport people or goods by aircraft: 
    The restaurant flies its fish in daily from Scotland.
    We will be flying 100 badly wounded civilians out of the battle zone tonight.
- to control an aircraft: 
    I learned to fly when I was in Australia.
- to move or go quickly: 
    With the explosion, glass flew across the room.
    Cathy flew by/past me in the corridor.
    My holiday seems to have flown (by) (= passed very quickly) this year.
    The door/window suddenly flew open.
    Anyway, I must fly (= leave quickly) - I didn't realize how late it was!
- to wave or move about in the air while being fixed at one end: 
    The ship was flying the Spanish flag.
    The flag was flying at half-mast (= brought down to a point half way down the pole) to mark the death of the president.
    There isn't really enough wind to fly a kite today.
- If rumours, accusations, etc. fly, they are passed quickly from one person to another and cause excitement: 
    Rumors are flying that the school may close.
- a small insect with two wings
- the opening at the front of a pair of trousers: 
    Hey Chris, your fly's undone!
- a hook (= curved piece of wire) with coloured threads fastened to it, attached to the end of a fishing line to attract fish
- an extra sheet of canvas (= strong cloth) stretched over the outside of a tent to keep the rain out
idioms:
 be flying high
 fly in the face of sth
 fly into a rage
 fly off the handle
 go fly a kite
 go/send sth/sb flying
 with flying colours
 drop like flies
 fly in the ointment
 fly on the wall
 no flies on sb
 on the fly
 wouldn't hurt a fly
phrasal verbs:
 fly around
 fly at sb/sth

during /ˈdʒʊə.rɪŋ/
- from the beginning to the end of a particular period: 
    They work during the night and sleep by day.
    There were huge advances in aviation technology during the Second World War.
- at some time between the beginning and the end of a period: 
    I woke up several times during the night.

space /speɪs/
- an empty area that is available to be used: 
    Is there any space for my clothes in that cupboard?
    I need to make (some) space for Mark's things.
    When the roads are wet, you've got to leave plenty of space between you and the car in front.
    The blank space at the end of the form is for your name.
    We found a parking space close to the museum.
- the area around everything that exists, continuing in all directions: 
    He was absent-mindedly staring/gazing into space (= looking, but seeing nothing).
    Virtual reality gives us artificial worlds to explore, outside normal space and time.
- the distance between a football, rugby, etc. player and any opposing players: 
    If you give quality players that much space, they will punish you.
- land, especially in a town, that has no buildings on it: 
    What I like about this town is that there's so much open space.
    I love the wide open spaces (= large areas of countryside) of central Australia.
- very soon: 
    Within a short space of time you could be speaking perfect English!
- during a period of six weeks, three hours, etc.: 
    It all happened in the space of ten minutes.
- the empty area outside Earth's atmosphere, where the planets and the stars are: 
    space exploration/travel
    a space rocket
    Who was the first human being in space/the first to go into space?
- to arrange things or people so that there is some distance or time between them: 
    That page looks badly spaced (= there is too much/too little distance between the lines or words).
    The flowers were spaced (out) evenly (= planted at equal distances) beside the path.
    If you're in financial difficulty, we're happy to let you space (out) your payments (= pay in smaller amounts over a longer period of time) over two years.

kick /kɪk/
- to hit someone or something with the foot, or to move the feet and legs suddenly and violently: 
    I kicked the ball as hard as I could.
    He was accused of kicking a man in the face.
    She felt the baby kicking inside her.
- If a gun kicks, it jumps back suddenly and with force when the gun is fired.
- used to say that you are very annoyed with yourself because you have done something stupid or missed a chance: 
    When I realized what I'd done I could have kicked myself.
    They must be kicking themselves for selling their shares too early.
- the action of kicking something: 
    He gave the ball a good kick.
- a strong feeling of excitement and pleasure: 
    I get a real kick out of winning a race.
    He was stealing stuff just for kicks (= because he thought it was exciting).
- the strong effect of an alcoholic drink: 
    Watch out for the fruit punch, it has a real kick.
- a strong or spicy taste : 
    Try adding ginger or chillifor a bit of a kick.
    The lively flavours and delicious kick of lime will give your tastebuds a wake-up call.
- a new interest, especially one that does not last long: 
    He's on an exercise kick (= he exercises a lot) at the moment.
- shoes, especially fashionable sports shoes: 
    Do you like my new kicks?
    Those kicks are badass!
idioms:
 kick (some) ass
 kick the bucket
 kick the can down the road
 kick the habit
 kick your heels
 kick it
 kick sth into the long grass
 kick sth into touch
 kick over the traces
 kick the tires
 kick up a fuss/row/stink
 kick up your heels
 kick sb upstairs
 kick in the teeth
 a kick up the arse/backside
phrasal verbs:
 kick against sth
 kick around
 kick sth around
 kick back
 kick in
 kick in sth
 kick off
 kick (sth) off
 kick sb out
 kick up

other /ˈʌð.ər/
- as well as the thing or person already mentioned: 
    The product has many other time-saving features.
    There is no other work available at the moment.
    There is only one other person who could help us.
    Are there any other people we should ask?
    I found one earring - do you know where the other one is?
- used at the end of a list to show that there are more things, without being exact about what they are: 
    The plan has been opposed by schools, businesses and other local organizations.
    These two books will be especially useful for editors, journalists and other professional users of the language.
- the opposite side or end of something: 
    Put the chair at the other end of the desk.
    The man was waiting on the other side of the street.
- different from the thing or person already mentioned: 
    Idon't have any cash - is there no other way of paying?
    He likes travelling abroad and learning about other people's customs and traditions.
- referring to a day, week, etc. in the recent past without saying exactly when it was: 
    I saw him just the other day/night.
- different from or except: 
    Cruises other than the ones listed below are not discounted at this time.
    The form cannot be signed by anyone other than yourself.
- in a negative sentence, used to mean "except": 
    There's nothing on TV tonight, other than the usual rubbish.
- used to introduce an explanation that is simpler than the one given earlier: 
    He was economical with the truth - in other words, he was lying.
- used when you cannot or do not want to be exact about the information you are giving: 
    The event was held in some park or other.
    We'll find someone or other to help us.
- the second of two things or people, or the thing or person that is left in a group or set of things: 
    Hold the racquet in one hand and the ball in the other.
    Some people prefer a vegetarian diet, while others prefer a meat-based diet.
    She gave me one book last week and promised to bring the others on Wednesday.
- more ones: 
    I only know about this book, but there might be others (= other books).
- people in general, not including yourself: 
    You shouldn't expect others to do your work for you.
- different to what is usual or expected, and sometimes not well understood: 
    I guess it doesn’t fit with the historically expected monogamous model, therefore it’s considered other.
    There was a fear that under the costume there is something foreign, something terrifying and essentially other.

grab /ɡræb/
grab | -bb-
- to take hold of something or someone suddenly and roughly: 
    A mugger grabbed her handbag as she was walking across the park.
    He grabbed (hold of) his child's arm to stop her from running into the road.
- to take the opportunity to get, use, or enjoy something quickly: 
    If you don't grab this opportunity, you might not get another one.
    We'd better get there early, or someone else will grab the best seats.
    Let's just grab a quick bite.
- to attract someone's attention: 
    With your first sentence you must grab the reader's attention.
- a sudden attempt to hold, get, or take something: 
    The two children both made a grab for the same cake.
idioms:
 how does... grab you?
 up for grabs
phrasal verbs:
 grab at sth/sb

discuss /dɪˈskʌs/
- to talk about a subject with someone and tell each other your ideas or opinions: 
    The police want to discuss these recent racist attacks with local people.
- to talk or write about a subject in detail, especially considering different ideas and opinions related to it: 
    The later chapters discuss the effects on the environment.

third /θɜːd/
- 3rd written as a word: 
    the third road on the right
    the third time
    "What's the date today?" "It's the third (of July)."
    She was/came third in the competition.
- one of three equal parts of something: 
    He cut the cake into thirds (= three equal parts).
- an undergraduate degree from a university in the UK and some other countries that is below a second-class degree
- → 
third base 
idioms:
 the third degree

cat /kæt/
- a small animal with fur, four legs, a tail, and claws, usually kept as a pet or for catching mice 
- any member of the group of animals similar to the cat, such as the lion: 
    the cat family 
idioms:
 be the cat's whiskers
 fight like cat and dog
 has the cat got your tongue?
 let the cat out of the bag
 like a cat on a hot tin roof
 look like something the cat brought/dragged in
 not have a cat in hell's chance
 play cat and mouse
 put/set the cat among the pigeons
 while the cat's away, the mice will play

fifty /ˈfɪf.ti/
- the number 50: 
    forty-nine, fifty, fifty-one
    "How fast were they driving?" "They were doing fifty (miles an hour)."

mile /maɪl/
- a unit of distance equal to 1,760 yards or 1.6 kilometres: 
    a ten-mile drive
    The nearest town is ten miles away.
    The speed limit is 30 miles an/per hour.
- a very long way: 
    From the top, we could see for miles in every direction.
    He lives miles away on the other side of town.
idioms:
 be miles away
 a mile a minute
 a mile off
 miles
 miles from anywhere/nowhere
 miles too big, small, expensive, etc.
 stand/stick out a mile

fat /fæt/
fat | fatter | fattest
- having a lot of flesh on the body: 
    Like most women, she thinks she's fat.
    I hate my fat thighs.
    He eats all the time but he never gets fat.
- thick or large: 
    He passed me a fat envelope full of money.
    Some producers of mineral water have made fat profits.
- used in some phrases to mean very little or none: 
    A fat lot of use you are! (= You are not useful in any way.)
    He knows it upsets me, but a fat lot he cares (= he doesn't care).
- the substance under the skin of humans and animals that stores energy and keeps them warm: 
    body fat
    Women have a layer of subcutaneous fat (= fat under the skin), which provides them with better insulation than men.
- a solid or liquid substance from animals or plants and used especially in cooking: 
    This product contains no animal fat.
    vegetable fats
idioms:
 the fat is in the fire
 live off the fat of the land
 fat chance

reading /ˈriː.dɪŋ/
- the skill or activity of getting information from books: 
    Reading and tennis are my favourite pastimes.
    The diaries make good (bedtime) reading (= are good to read (in bed at night)).
    These books are compulsory/required reading for students of architecture.
- an occasion when something written, especially a work of literature, is spoken to an audience: 
    The society often arranges poetry readings and musical evenings.
- the way in which you understand something: 
    My reading of the situation is that John wanted any excuse to resign.
- In a parliament, a reading of a new law is one of the stages of discussion before it is approved: 
    The Housing Bill was given its second reading in Parliament today.
- the number or amount that a piece of measuring equipment shows: 
    a thermometer reading

idiot /ˈɪd.i.ət/
- a stupid person or someone who is behaving in a stupid way: 
    Some idiot left the tap running in the bathroom and there's water everywhere.
    You stupid idiot - that's a month's work you've lost!

rock /rɒk/
- the dry solid part of the earth's surface, or any large piece of this that sticks up out of the ground or the sea: 
    Mountains and cliffs are formed from rock.
    The boat struck a rock outside the bay and sank.
- a piece of rock or stone: 
    The demonstrators were hurling rocks at the police.
- a line of large stones sticking up from the sea: 
    The storm forced the ship onto the rocks.
- slang for a valuable stone used in jewellery, especially a diamond: 
    Have you seen the size of the rock he gave her for their anniversary?
- a type of popular music with a strong, loud beat that is usually played with electric guitars and drums: 
    a rock group
    a rock star
- a type of hard sweet, usually in the shape of a stick: 
    The vivid pink of seaside rock is very attractive to a child.
    a stick of rock
- to (cause someone or something to) move backwards and forwards or from side to side in a regular way: 
    He picked up the baby and gently rocked her to sleep.
    If you rock back on that chair, you're going to break it.
- If a person or place is rocked by something such as an explosion, the force of it makes the person or place shake: 
    The explosion, which rocked the city, killed 300.
- If an event rocks a group of people or society, it causes feelings of shock: 
    The managing director's resignation rocked the whole company.
- to wear a particular style of clothing, etc. and look good or fashionable: 
    There are celebrities over 40 years old who can still rock a tattoo.
idioms:
 be (caught) between a rock and a hard place
 be (as) solid as a rock
 get your rocks off
 on the rocks
 sb/sth rocks
 rock the boat
phrasal verbs:
 rock out
 rock up

suddenly /ˈsʌd.ən.li/
- quickly and unexpectedly: 
    "Do you remember much about the accident?" "No, it all happened so suddenly."
    I was just dozing off when suddenly I heard a scream from outside.
    I suddenly realized what I'd said, but it was too late.

agent /ˈeɪ.dʒənt/
- a person who acts for or represents another: 
    Please contact our agent in Spain for further information.
- a person who represents an actor, artist, or writer
- someone who works secretly for the government or other organization: 
    a secret/foreign agent
- a person or thing that produces a particular effect or change: 
    a powerful cleaning agent
    a raising agent for cakes
    a clotting agent
    He was the agent of their destruction.

bunch /bʌntʃ/
- a number of things of the same type fastened together or in a close group: 
    a bunch of flowers/grapes/bananas/keys
    The reorganization will give us a whole bunch (= a lot) of problems.
- a group of people: 
    They're a bunch of jerks.
    Your friends are a nice bunch.
- the best person or thing from a group of similar people or things: 
    Send in your poems and we'll publish the best of the bunch.
- If a girl has her hair in bunches, it is tied together in two parts with one at each side of her head: 
    As a little girl she wore her hair in bunches.
idioms:
 a bunch of fives

destroy /dɪˈstrɔɪ/
- to damage something so badly that it cannot be used: 
    Most of the old part of the city was destroyed by bombs during the war.
    The accident seemed to have completely/totally destroyed his confidence.
- to kill an animal because it is ill, in pain, or dangerous

track /træk/
- the pair of long metal bars fixed on the ground at an equal distance from each other, along which trains travel: 
    a ten-mile stretch of track
    Passengers are requested not to walk across the tracks.
- a path or rough road that is made of soil rather than having a surface covered with stone or other material: 
    The house is at the end of a dirt/an unmade track.
- a type of path or road, often in the shape of a ring, that has been specially designed and built for sports events, especially racing: 
    an all-weather track
    a dog/horse track
    The runners are now on their final lap of the track.
- a sport in which people compete with each other by running a race on a specially prepared circular path: 
    a track event
    Sam runs track on the high school team.
- the general name for a particular group of sports in which people compete, including running, jumping, and throwing
- a mark or line of marks left on the ground or on another surface by an animal, person, or vehicle that has moved over it, showing the direction they moved in: 
    Police found tyre tracks in the mud.
    The hunters followed the tracks of the deer for hours.
    The burglars were careful not to leave any tracks behind them.
- to be examining marks or pieces of information that show where a person or animal has gone, in order to catch him, her, or it: 
    The police are on the track of the killer.
- the direction that something has taken or will take through the air: 
    People living in the track of the hurricane have been advised to leave their homes until it has passed.
- the direction in which someone's job or education develops: 
    She was a lawyer, but then she changed track completely and became a doctor.
- the way in which a thought or idea has developed or might develop: 
    I found it difficult to follow the track of his argument.
- to start talking about something that is not part of what you should be talking about: 
    I think we're getting off the track here - we're supposed to be discussing our advertising campaign.
- a group of school students with similar ability who are approximately the same age and are taught together: 
    Students who do well in their 8th grade classes will qualify for the honors track in high school.
    the top/bottom track
- one of several songs or pieces of music on a CD or other musical recording: 
    The album includes four previously unreleased tracks.
- a part of a magnetic strip onto which sound can be recorded, with several tracks on one magnetic strip: 
    When a piece of music is recorded, each instrument is recorded separately on a 24 or 48-track tape.
- to follow a person or animal by looking for proof that they have been somewhere, or by using electronic equipment: 
    It's difficult to track an animal over stony ground.
    The military use radar satellites to track targets through clouds and at night.
    The terrorists were tracked to (= found in) Amsterdam.
- to record the progress or development of something over a period: 
    The study tracked the careers of 1,226 doctors who trained at the Medical School.
- If a film or video camera tracks in a particular direction, it moves along while it is filming: 
    The movie ends with a long tracking shot around the deserted house.
- If a moving part of a recording machine tracks, it gets into the correct position for operating: 
    Our VCR tracks automatically.
- to follow the level of an interest rate, share price, etc.: 
    The mortgage deal will track the Bank of England base rate plus 0.75 percent.
    Tony is putting £500 a month into a a savings account that tracks the FTSE All-Share index.
- to group and teach together school students with similar abilities who are approximately the same age: 
    We start to track the children in the third form.
idioms:
 be on the right/wrong track
 in your tracks
 keep track
 lose track
 make tracks
 on track
phrasal verbs:
 track sth/sb down

shoe /ʃuː/
- one of a pair of coverings for your feet, usually made of a strong material such as leather, with a thick leather or plastic sole (= base) and usually a heel: 
    flat/high-heeled shoes
    running/tennis shoes
    He put on/took off his new pair of shoes.
    Hurry and do up/lace up your shoes.
    a shoe shop
- a 
horseshoe 
- If you shoe a horse, you nail a horseshoe (= a curved piece of metal) to one or each of its feet.
idioms:
 be in sb's shoes
 if I were in your shoes
 step into sb's shoes

scene /siːn/
- a part of a play or film in which the action stays in one place for a continuous period of time: 
    the funeral/wedding scene
    nude/sex scenes
    Juliet dies in Act IV, Scene iii.
- a view or picture of a place, event, or activity: 
    Lowry painted street scenes.
    scenes of everyday life
    There were scenes of great joy as the hostages were reunited with their families.
- a place where an unpleasant event has happened: 
    The police arrived to find a scene of horrifying destruction.
    Evidence was found at the scene of the crime.
- a particular area of activity and all the people or things connected with it: 
    the pop/political/drugs/gay scene
    Rap music arrived/came/appeared on the scene in the early 1980s.
    I'd rather go to a jazz concert - I'm afraid opera isn't really my scene (= is not the type of thing I like).
- an expression of great anger or similar feelings, often between two people, or an occasion when this happens: 
    Please don't make a scene.
    There was a terrible scene and Jayne ended up in tears.
idioms:
 be on the scene
 behind the scenes
 set the scene

peace /piːs/
- freedom from war and violence, especially when people live and work together happily without disagreements: 
    peace talks/proposals
    a peace conference/initiative
    Now that the war is over may there be a lasting peace between our nations.
    Peace lasted in Europe for just over 20 years after 1918 before war broke out again.
    She's very good at keeping (the) peace within the family.
    The police act on the public's behalf to keep the peace.
    Stop fighting you two - shake hands and make (your) peace (with each other)!
- the state of not being interrupted or annoyed by worry, problems, noise, or unwanted actions: 
    You'll need peace and quiet to study.
    He says he's at peace when he's walking in the mountains.
    Go away and leave us to finish our dinner in peace.
    For everyone's peace of mind go back and check that you locked the door.
    There'll be no peace until she gets what she wants.
    I didn't agree with what she said but I held my peace (= did not say anything).
idioms:
 at peace
 be at peace with the world

demon /ˈdiː.mən/
- an evil spirit
- a person who does a particular activity with great skill or energy: 
    She works like a demon.
    Stefan has a demon serve.
- a person who behaves very badly: 
    That's the last time I take care of her kids - I'll be glad when the little demons go home.
- a negative feeling that causes you to worry or behave badly: 
    She had her demons and, later in life, they drove her to drink.
idioms:
 the demon drink

low /ləʊ/
- not measuring much from the base to the top: 
    a low fence
- close to the ground or the bottom of something: 
    a low ceiling
    When we went skiing, I only went on the lower slopes.
- below the usual level: 
    Temperatures are very low for the time of year.
    The big supermarket offers the lowest prices in town.
    These people are living on relatively low incomes.
    There is a tremendous need for more low-cost housing.
    a low-fat diet
    low-alcohol beer
    Vegetables are generally low in (= do not contain many) calories.
- producing only a small amount of sound, heat, or light: 
    They spoke in low voices so I would not hear what they were saying.
    Turn the oven to a low heat.
    Soft music was playing and the lights were low.
- of bad quality, especially when referring to something that is not as good as it should be: 
    low standards
    I have a very low opinion of him.
    She has very low self-esteem.
- not considered important because of being at or near the bottom of a range of things, especially jobs or social positions: 
    low status jobs
    a low priority task
- not honest or fair: 
    How low can you get?
    That was a pretty low trick to play.
- (of a sound or voice) near or at the bottom of the range of sounds: 
    He has a very low voice.
    Those low notes are played by the double bass.
- unhappy: 
    Illness of any sort can leave you feeling low.
    He seemed in low spirits.
- close to the ground or the bottom of something: 
    The planes fly low across enemy territory.
- at or to a low level: 
    low-paid workers
    Turn the oven on low.
- to have nearly finished a supply of something: 
    We're running low on milk - could you buy some more?
    The radio batteries are running low.
- to make the deep, long sound of a cow
- a bad time in someone's life: 
    the highs and lows of an acting career
- the lowest level: 
    The dollar has hit an all-time low against the Japanese yen.
idioms:
 the low man on the totem pole
 the lowest of the low

consider /kənˈsɪd.ər/
- to spend time thinking about a possibility or making a decision: 
    Don't make any decisions before you've considered the situation.
    Have you considered what you'll do if you don't get the job?
    We're considering selling the house.
    She's being considered for the job.
    I'd like some time to consider before I make a decision.
- to give attention to a particular subject or fact when judging something else: 
    You've got to consider the time element when planning the whole project.
    If you consider how long he's been learning the piano, he's not very good.
- to care about or respect other people or their feelings and wishes: 
    Did you consider your mother and how she's going to feel about you leaving?
    She never considers anyone but herself - she's totally selfish!
- to believe someone or something to be, or think of him, her, or it as something: 
    He is currently considered (to be) the best British athlete.
    We don't consider her to be right for the job.
    It is considered bad manners in some cultures to speak with your mouth full of food.
    I consider myself lucky that I only hurt my arm in the accident.
    Do you consider him a friend of yours?
    She considers (that) she has done enough to help already.
- to be very much admired: 
    I don't like her books, but I know she's very highly considered.
idioms:
 consider it done

drunk /drʌŋk/
- past participle of drink
- unable to speak or act in the usual way because of having had too much alcohol: 
    I got completely drunk at my sister's wedding.
    I'd had a couple of glasses of wine but I certainly wasn't drunk.
    He came home last night blind (= extremely) drunk.
- the crime of behaving badly in public after drinking too much alcohol
- having a strong and unreasonable feeling of being able to control other people
- a person who drinks large amounts of alcohol very often and is unable to stop
idioms:
 drunk as a lord

tell /tel/
tell | told | told
- to say something to someone, often giving them information or instructions: 
    Tell me about your holiday then.
    Can you tell me how to get to the library?
    Did you tell anyone (that) you were coming to see me?
    "I'm leaving you," she told him.
    I told her to go home.
    He told us of his extraordinary childhood.
    I can't tell you how grateful I am for your help (= I am extremely grateful).
- to say something/things that are not true: 
    She's always telling lies.
- to tell the facts without hiding anything
- If someone, usually a child, tells tales, they tell someone such as a teacher about something bad that someone else has done: 
    Your classmates won't trust you if you're always telling tales, Alvin.
- to speak honestly: 
    How do you know she's telling the truth?
- to be honest: 
    To tell (you) the truth, I didn't understand a word of what he was saying.
- to know, recognize, or be certain: 
    "He's Dutch." "How can you tell?"
    I could tell (that) you were unhappy.
- If something tells you something, it gives you information: 
    What does the survey tell us about the lives of teenagers?
- to notice a difference in quality between two things: 
    This coffee is about half the price of that one and yet you really can't tell the difference.
- to say what will happen in someone's future: 
    At the fair, there was a lady who told your fortune.
- to be able to understand a clock: 
    My daughter has just learned to tell the time.
- there is no way of knowing: 
    There is no telling what the future will hold for them.
- said to mean that you can never know or be certain: 
    Who knows what will happen to Peter and me in the future - you can never tell.
- to have an effect: 
    She's been under a lot of stress recently and it's starting to tell.
idioms:
 I'm telling you
 (I) told you (so)!
 (I'll) tell you what
 tell me about it!
 tell me another one!
 you're telling me!
phrasal verbs:
 tell against sb/sth
 tell sth/sb apart
 tell sb off
 tell on sb

knock /nɒk/
- to repeatedly hit something, producing a noise: 
    She knocked on the window to attract his attention.
    There's someone knocking on/at the door.
    Please knock before entering.
- If an engine is knocking, it is producing a repeated high sound either because the fuel is not burning correctly or because a small part is damaged and is therefore allowing another part to move in ways that it should not.
- If something such as a pipe knocks, it makes a repeated high sound.
- to hit, especially forcefully, and cause to move or fall: 
    He accidentally knocked the vase off the table.
    She knocked her head against the wall as she fell.
    Who knocked over that mug of coffee?
    Some thug knocked him unconscious/senseless.
    She took a hammer and knocked a hole in the wall.
- If you knock two rooms into each other or knock two rooms through, you remove the wall between them so that they form one room.
- to criticize, especially unfairly: 
    Don't knock him - he's doing his best.
- a sudden short noise made when someone or something hits a surface: 
    There was a knock at/on the door.
- the act of something hard hitting a person or thing: 
    He received a nasty knock on the head from a falling slate.
idioms:
 be knocking (on) 60, 70, etc.
 knock sb's block off
 knock sb off their pedestal
 knock sth on the head
 knock (some) sense into sb
 knock sb sideways/for six
 knock on wood
 knock 'em dead!
 knock it off
 knock spots off sth
 knock the bottom out of sth
 knock, knock!
 you could have knocked me down/over with a feather
 the knock at/on the door
 take/have a knock
phrasal verbs:
 knock around
 knock around (sth)
 knock sb around
 knock sb back (sth)
 knock back (sth)
 knock sb down
 knock sb/sth down
 knock sth down
 knock off (sth)
 knock sth off (sth)
 knock sth off
 knock sb off
 knock sb out
 knock yourself out
 knock sth out
 knock sth out of sb
 knock sb over
 knock sth over
 knock sth together/up
 knock up
 knock sb up

bell /bel/
- an electrical device that makes a ringing sound when you press a button: 
    I stood at the front door and rang the bell several times.
- a hollow metal object shaped like a cup that makes a ringing sound when hit by something hard, especially a clapper: 
    The church bells rang out to welcome in the New Year.
idioms:
 give sb a bell
 warning/alarm bells start to ring/sound
 with bells on

cash /kæʃ/
- money in the form of notes and coins, rather than cheques or credit cards: 
    Do you have any cash on you?
    Will you pay by credit card or in cash?
    He says he wants cash in advance before he'll do the job.
    I'm a bit short of/strapped for cash (= I do not have much money) at the moment.
- to exchange a cheque, etc. for cash: 
    Would you cash a cheque for me?
phrasal verbs:
 cash in on sth
 cash out sth
 cash up

give /ɡɪv/
give | gave | given
- to offer something to someone, or to provide someone with something: 
    She gave us a set of saucepans as a wedding present.
    Can you give me a date for another appointment?
    They never gave me a chance/choice.
    Has the director given you permission to do that?
    We always try to give to charity.
    We're collecting for the children's home - please give generously.
    The police gave (out) road-safety booklets to the children (= gave them to all the children).
    Please give (up) your seat to an elderly or disabled person if they need it.
- to pay someone a particular amount: 
    I gave the taxi driver £20 and told him to keep the change.
- to give your money, time, or best efforts, especially in a way that seems generous: 
    We're very grateful to all the people who have given of their time.
    She wasn't feeling well, so I don't think she gave of her best tonight.
- to put a lot of effort into doing something: 
    We must be finished by tonight, so I want you to give it your all.
- to tell someone something: 
    The winner's name was given (out)/They gave the winner's name (out) on the news.
    Can you give Jo a message for me?
- to punish someone by sending them to prison for a particular period: 
    If you're found guilty, they'll give you three years.
- to allow a person or activity a particular amount of time: 
    I'm nearly ready - just give me a couple of minutes.
- to calculate that something will last a particular amount of time: 
    Look at that old car she bought - I give it two weeks before it breaks down.
- to produce or cause something: 
    The fresh air gave us an appetite (= made us hungry).
    What you said has given me an idea.
    The alarm gave (out) a high-pitched sound.
- to tell someone something or cause someone to think that something is true: 
    I was given to understand she was staying at this hotel.
- to perform an action: 
    She gave me a smile/strange look.
    They had to give the car a push to start it.
    Give me a call/ring (= phone me) when you get back from holiday.
    Who is giving the speech/lecture/concert?
- to organize a party, meal, etc.: 
    They're always giving parties.
    The ambassador is giving a banquet for the visiting president.
- to attempt something: 
    Only a few people are successful as professional athletes, but it's worth giving it a go.
- to say publicly that everyone present at a formal occasion, especially a meal, should drink a toast to someone (= have a drink in honour of someone): 
    Ladies and Gentlemen, I give you the president!
- If something gives, it stretches, bends, or breaks, or becomes less firm or tight, under pressure: 
    The rope gave under/with the weight of the load.
    The shoes will give a little after you've worn them once or twice.
    You can't work so hard all the time - something will have to give (= change).
    Suddenly her patience gave (out) and she shouted angrily at the children.
- in some sports, to decide and state officially that a player or the ball is in a particular condition or place: 
    The umpire gave the batsman out.
    The ball was clearly out, but the line judge gave it in.
- the quality of stretching, bending, or breaking, or becoming less firm or tight, under pressure: 
    A sweater knitted in pure cotton doesn't have much give (= will not stretch much).
idioms:
 don't give me that!
 give as good as you get
 give or take
 give me ... any day/every time!
 give way
 give sb what for
 given the chance/choice
 what I wouldn't give for sth
 I would give anything/a lot
phrasal verbs:
 give sth away
 give sb away
 give sth back
 give in
 give sth in
 give sth off
 give onto sth
 give out
 give sth out
 give over
 give sth over to sth/sb
 give yourself over/up to sth
 give up
 give up sth
 give up (sth)
 give (sth) up
 give sth up
 give sb up
 give yourself up
 give up on sb/sth

department /dɪˈpɑːt.mənt/
- a part of an organization such as a school, business, or government that deals with a particular area of study or work: 
    the chemistry department/the department of chemistry
    The sales department is/are having a Christmas party this week.
    the Department of Health and Social Security
- one of the areas that France is divided into, that has its own local government: 
    Angers is the capital of the department of Maine-et-Loire. 
idioms:
 be sb's department
 in the brain/looks department

nose /nəʊz/
- the part of the face that sticks out above the mouth, through which you breathe and smell: 
    a large/long/pointed nose
    I had a sore throat and a runny nose (= liquid coming out of the nose).
    Come on now, stop crying and blow your nose .
- the particular smell of a wine: 
    a wine praised for its smoky nose
- the front of a vehicle, especially an aircraft: 
    The symbol was painted on each side of the plane's nose.
- to look around or search in order to discover something, especially something that other people do not want you to find: 
    There were some reporters nosing about/around.
    The police came in and started nosing into drawers and looking through papers.
- to (make a vehicle) move forwards slowly and carefully: 
    The car nosed out of the side street, its driver peering anxiously around.
    He carefully nosed his lorry into the small space.
idioms:
 be (right) under your nose
 by a nose
 get up sb's nose
 have your nose in a book
 have a (good) nose for sth
 keep your nose clean
 keep your nose out of sth
 keep/put your nose to the grindstone
 nose in the air
 nose to tail
 not see/look, etc. beyond/past the end of your nose
 on the nose
 stick your nose into sth
 put sb's nose out of joint
 (from) under your nose
phrasal verbs:
 nose sth out

turn /tɜːn/
- to (cause to) move in a circle around a fixed point or line: 
    The earth turns on its axis once every 24 hours.
    She turned on her toes, holding out her skirt.
    The wheels started to turn (around).
    Turn the steering wheel as quickly as you can.
    She turned the doorknob and quietly opened the door.
    Slowly, I turned the door handle.
- to (cause to) change the direction in which you are facing or moving: 
    Turn right at the traffic lights.
    The path twists and turns for the next half mile.
    We have to turn down/into/up the next road on the right.
    Plants tend to turn towards the source of light.
    She turned to face him.
    He turned round and waved to us.
    He turned on his heel (= turned quickly to face the opposite direction) and left the room.
    The person on my left turned to me and whispered "Not another speech!"
    His wife tried to speak to him, but he turned his back (on her)/turned away (from her) (= moved so that his back, not his face, was towards her to show his anger).
    At about three o'clock, the tide started to turn (= the sea started to come closer to or move away from the beach).
    He turned his head to me to listen.
    I'll just turn the car round and go back the way we came.
    We watched until the car had turned (= gone around) the corner.
    The army turned their guns on (= pointed them at and started to shoot at) the protesters.
    She can turn (= perform) a somersault.
- to move, or to move an object or page, so that a different side or surface is on the top: 
    Now turn the page, please, and start work on Exercise 2.
    She turned the vase over to look for the price.
    He turned over two or three pages.
    She put out the light, turned over (= rolled in order to face in another direction) and went to sleep.
    Now turn to (= open the book at) page 23 and look at the first paragraph.
- to (cause to) become, change into, or come to be something: 
    The weather has suddenly turned cold.
    When I refused to pay, he turned nasty.
    She turned pale and started to shiver.
    The mood of the meeting turned solemn when the extent of the problem became known.
    The companies worked well together for a while, but eventually the relationship turned sour (= became bad).
    Keele, pop star turned business tycoon, has launched a new range of cosmetics.
    The dry weather turned the soil into/to concrete.
    By the end of September, the leaves have started to turn (= become brown).
    Her attitude turned from politely interested to enthusiastic during the course of our conversation.
- to become a particular age or time: 
    She turned 18 last year.
    It's just turned ten o'clock.
- to use a control to switch a piece of equipment or a power or water supply on or off, or to increase or reduce what it is producing: 
    Turn off/out the light.
    Who turned the TV on?
    I asked him to turn down the heating.
    Turn the sound up - I can't hear what they're saying.
    The heater turns off (= can be switched off) using this switch.
- to damage the muscles in the foot by suddenly twisting it too strongly: 
    She turned her ankle on the rocks and had to hobble back to camp.
- to shape a piece of wood while it is attached to a machine that spins it: 
    a turned bowl
- an opportunity or a duty to do something at a particular time or in a particular order, before or after other people: 
    Is it my turn yet?
    I waited so long for my turn to see the careers adviser that I missed my bus.
    It's your turn to do the dishes!
    In this game if you give the wrong answer you have to miss a turn.
- When a number of people take turns, they do the same thing one after the other: 
    We take turns answering the phone.
- one after the other in an agreed order: 
    Each of us takes a break in turn.
- an action that causes something to move in a circle round a fixed point: 
    Give the screw a couple of turns to make sure it's tight.
- a change in the direction in which you are moving or facing: 
    When you see the school on the left, make a right turn.
    The path was full of twists and turns.
- Something that is on the turn is about to change direction: 
    The tide is on the turn.
- the point at which something changes or moves in a different direction: 
    the turn of the tide
    She was born around the turn of the century (= around 1900, 2000, etc.).
- to develop in a particular way: 
    The battle for control of the company took an interesting turn today.
    Events took an unexpected turn when her mother suddenly arrived.
- to suddenly become better or worse: 
    Their relationship took a turn for the worse when he lost his job.
- a stage act or performance: 
    The first couple of turns were children singing and dancing.
- a slight illness, a strange feeling, or a nervous shock: 
    After the accident I started having funny turns.
    It gave me quite a turn to see him after all these years.
idioms:
 not turn a hair
 turn a blind eye
 turn a deaf ear
 turn your back on sth
 turn your back on sb
 turn your hand to sth
 turn sb's head
 turn your nose up
 turn sth on its head
 turn over a new leaf
 turn sb's stomach
 turn sth upside down
 turn tail
 turn the clock back
 turn the corner
 turn the other cheek
 turn the spotlight on sth
 turn the tables on sb
 a good/bad turn
 at every turn
 a turn of the screw
 cooked/done to a turn
 one good turn deserves another
 speak/talk out of turn
phrasal verbs:
 turn (sb) against sb/sth
 turn around
 turn sth around
 turn away
 turn sb away
 turn (sb) back
 turn sth/sb down
 turn in
 turn sb in
 turn sth in
 turn (sb/sth) into sb/sth
 turn off (sth)
 turn sb off
 turn sth on
 turn on sb
 turn on sth
 turn sb on
 turn sb on to sth
 turn out
 turn sth out
 turn sb out
 turn over
 turn (sth) over
 turn over sth
 turn sth over
 turn somewhere/sth over
 turn sth over to sb
 turn sb over to sb
 turn round
 turn sth round
 turn to sb/sth
 turn to sth
 turn (sth) to sth
 turn up (somewhere)
 turn up
 turn sth up

keep /kiːp/
keep | kept | kept
- to have or continue to have in your possession: 
    Do you want this photograph back or can I keep it?
    Keep medicines in a locked cupboard (= store them there).
- to own and manage a small shop: 
    My uncle kept a little tobacconist's in Gloucester.
- If you keep animals, you own and take care of them, but not in your home as pets: 
    to keep pigs/goats/chickens
- to watch and care for someone's children while their parents are away: 
    Jody will keep the children while I shop.
- to do what you have told someone that you would do: 
    I made a promise to you and I intend to keep it.
- to go to a meeting or event that has been arranged: 
    She phoned to say she couldn't keep her appointment.
- to make a regular record of events or other information so that you can refer to it later: 
    I've kept a diary for twelve years now.
    Keep an account of how much you're spending.
- to not tell anyone a secret that you know
- (of a watch or clock) to show the correct time: 
    Does your watch keep good time?
- to be the player who defends your team's goal by trying to prevent players from the other team scoring goals
- to (cause to) stay in a particular place or condition: 
    I wish you'd keep quiet.
    I like to keep busy.
    Keep left (= stay on the road to the left) at the traffic lights.
    Can you keep the dog outside, please?
    Close the door to keep the room warm.
    The noise from their party kept me awake half the night.
- to not tell people about something: 
    They managed to keep the school's problems quiet for a while.
    You're a qualified skiing instructor? You kept that quiet!
- to continue doing something without stopping, or to do it repeatedly: 
    He keeps trying to distract me.
    I keep on thinking I've seen her before somewhere.
    I kept hoping that he'd phone me.
- to continue in the same way as before: 
    If things keep going like this, we'll have to close the business.
- to continue to do something or to live normally in a difficult situation: 
    Sometimes it was hard to keep going, but we did it for the children's sake.
- to help someone to continue doing something or living normally, especially in a difficult situation: 
    It was my friends that kept me going through all this.
- to prevent someone from getting too hungry when they have to wait to eat a meal: 
    Have a piece of fruit to keep you going.
- to delay someone or prevent them from doing something: 
    He's very late - what's keeping him?
    I'm so sorry to keep you waiting.
    She kept me talking on the phone for half an hour.
    I hope I'm not keeping you up (= preventing you from going to bed).
- If you say that news or information for someone can keep, you mean that you can tell it to them later: 
    "I must tell you something." "Can't it keep? I'm in a hurry!"
    Whatever your news is, it will keep.
- (of food) to stay fresh and in good condition: 
    Milk keeps much longer in a fridge.
- to provide yourself or another person with food, clothing, a home, and other things necessary for basic living: 
    He wanted a job that would allow him to keep his family in comfort.
- the cost of providing food, heating, and other necessary things for someone: 
    He's old enough now to earn his keep and stop living off his parents.
- the strong main tower of a castle
idioms:
 how are you keeping?
phrasal verbs:
 keep at sth
 keep (sb/sth) away
 keep (sth/sb) back
 keep sth back
 keep sth down
 keep sb down
 keep from doing sth
 keep sb/sth from sth
 keep sth from sb
 keep sb in
 keep in with sb
 keep (sb/sth) off sth
 keep sth off (sb/sth)
 keep (sb) off sth
 keep off sth
 keep on doing sth
 keep on
 keep (sb/sth) out
 keep (sb/sth) out of sth
 keep to somewhere
 keep sth to sth
 keep sth to yourself
 keep (yourself) to yourself
 keep to sth
 keep sb up
 keep sth up
 keep (sth) up
 keep up
 keep up (with sb/sth)

beer /bɪər/
- an alcoholic drink made from grain and hops (= a type of plant): 
    He asked for a pint of beer.
    This beer is brewed in Mexico.
- a glass or container of this drink: 
    After a hard day's work I enjoy a beer or two.

soon /suːn/
- in or within a short time; before long; quickly: 
    She'll soon be here./She'll be here soon.
    It will soon be impossible for foreigners to enter the country.
    The sooner we leave, the sooner we'll get there.
    Soon after agreeing to go, she realized she'd made a mistake.
    How soon (= when) can we sign the contract?
    "When would you like to meet?" "The sooner the better."
    I couldn't get out of that place soon enough.
- at the same time or a very short time after: 
    As soon as I saw her, I knew there was something wrong.
- If you do something as soon as possible, you do it as quickly as you can: 
    We need the repairs done as soon as possible.
idioms:
 no sooner ... than
 no sooner said than done
 see you soon
 sooner or later
 would (just) as soon

plenty /ˈplen.ti/
- (the state of having) enough or more than enough, or a large amount: 
    "Would you like some more wine?" "No thanks, I've had plenty."
    Don't grab at the balloons, children - there are plenty for everyone.
    We've got plenty of time before we need to leave for the airport.
    They've always had plenty of money.
    There's plenty to do here.
    This car cost me plenty (= a lot of money).
    There's plenty more beer in the fridge.
idioms:
 be plenty more where sb/sth came from

extra /ˈek.strə/
- added to what is normal: 
    If you need any extra help, just call me.
    Recently he's been working an extra two hours a day.
    The price includes travel and accommodation but meals are extra (= there is an additional charge for meals).
- too extreme and not suitable; making too much effort, or demanding too much effort and attention: 
    Olivia's so extra - she built a model of an island when she only needed to do a rough sketch.
- more: 
    They pay her extra to work nights.
    We agreed on a price but afterwards they wanted £10 extra.
    I worked extra hard (= more than usual) on that essay.
- something that you can get with something else if you pay a little more money: 
    A sunroof is an optional extra on this model of the car.
- a person in a film who does not have a speaking part and who is usually part of the scene, for example, in a crowd
- a point given to one cricket team if the other team makes an illegal mistake when bowling
- outside or in addition to: 
    extraterrestrial beings (= imaginary creatures which come from outside the planet Earth)
    an extramarital affair (= a sexual relationship of a married person with someone other than their husband or wife)
    extracurricular activities (= activities which are not part of the usual school or college course)
idioms:
 go the extra mile

attack /əˈtæk/
- to try to hurt or defeat using violence: 
    He was attacked and seriously injured by a gang of youths.
    Army forces have been attacking the town since dawn.
    Most wild animals won't attack unless they are provoked.
- to criticize someone strongly: 
    She wrote an article attacking the judges and their conduct of the trial.
    The report attacks the idea of exams for seven and eight-year-olds.
- If something, such as a disease or a chemical, attacks something, it damages it: 
    AIDS attacks the body's immune system.
    My rose bushes are being attacked by aphids.
- If players in a team attack, they move forward to try to score points, goals, etc.
- to deal with something quickly and in an effective way: 
    We have to attack these problems now and find some solutions.
    The children rushed in and eagerly attacked the food (= quickly started to eat it).
- a violent act intended to hurt or damage someone or something: 
    a racist attack
    Enemy forces have made an attack on the city.
    These bomb blasts suggest that the terrorists are (going) on the attack (= trying to defeat or hurt other people) again.
    The town was once again under attack (= being attacked).
- a strong criticism of someone or something: 
    a scathing attack on the president
    The government has come under attack from all sides for cutting education spending.
- a sudden and short period of illness: 
    an attack of asthma/flu/malaria
    an attack of the giggles
- the part of a team in some sports that tries to score points: 
    The team has a strong attack, but its defence is weak.
    The team is strong inattack but useless in defence.
- determination in the way you play a sport, trying hard to score points: 
    The team needs to put some more attack into its game.

ground /ɡraʊnd/
- the surface of the earth: 
    I sat down on the ground.
- soil: 
    soft/stony ground
    The ground was frozen hard and was impossible to dig.
- an area of land used for a particular purpose or activity: 
    a football ground
    The lake has become a dumping ground for toxic chemicals.
    skills learnt on the training ground (= place where sports teams practise)
- the gardens and land that surround a building and often have a wall or fence around them: 
    We went for a walk around the hospital grounds.
- a reason, cause, or argument: 
    She is suing the company on grounds of unfair dismissal.
    Do you have any ground for suspecting them?
    We have grounds to believe that you have been lying to us.
    He refused to answer on the grounds that the question violated his rights to privacy.
- an area of knowledge or experience: 
    When the conversation turns to politics he's on familiar ground (= he knows a lot about this subject).
    Once we'd found some common ground (= things we both knew about) we got along very well together.
    The lectures covered a lot of ground (= included information on many different subjects).
    I enjoyed her first novel, but I felt in the second she was going over the same ground (= dealing with the same area of experience).
- a wire that makes a connection between a piece of electrical equipment and the ground, so the user is protected from feeling an electric shock if the equipment develops a fault
- the small grains of coffee left at the bottom of a cup or other container that has had coffee in it
- past simple and past participle of
grind 
- If a ship is grounded, it cannot move because it has hit solid ground: 
    The oil tanker was grounded on a sandbank.
- If aircraft are grounded, they are prevented from flying or ordered not to fly: 
    The snowstorm meant that all planes were grounded.
- to forbid (= refuse to allow) a child or young person from going out as a punishment: 
    My parents grounded me for a week.
- to connect a piece of electrical equipment to the ground with a wire: 
    You could get a nasty shock from that water heater if it isn't grounded properly.
- to be based firmly on something: 
    Fiction should be grounded in reality.
    Most phobias are grounded in childhood experiences.
idioms:
 drive/work yourself into the ground
 get (sth) off the ground
 go/be run to ground
 on the ground

whose /huːz/
- used especially in questions when asking about which person owns or is responsible for something: 
    Whose is this bag?
    Whose bag is this?
- used for adding information about a person or thing just mentioned: 
    Cohen, whose short film won awards, was chosen to direct the movie .
    There was a picture in the paper of a man whose leg had been blown off.
    They meet in an old house, whose basement has been converted into a chapel.
    Fraud detectives are investigating the company, three of whose senior executives have already been arrested.

weekend /ˌwiːkˈend/
- Saturday and Sunday, or Friday evening until Sunday night; the part of the week in which many people living in the West do not go to work: 
    This/Next weekend we're going to see some friends.
    I have a lot of homework to do over the weekend.
    He spent the weekend fishing with his brother.
    Do you have anything planned for the weekend?
- a trip or a visit at a weekend: 
    How much would a weekend for two in New York cost?
    They own a weekend retreat in the country.
- on Saturday or Sunday, or on both Saturday and Sunday: 
    What did you do at the weekend?
    We go out once in a while after work and at the weekend.
- usually or often between Friday evening and Sunday night, or on Saturdays and Sundays: 
    They go windsurfing at weekends.

matter /ˈmæt.ər/
- a situation or subject that is being dealt with or considered: 
    Could I talk to you about a personal matter?
    Allen denied any knowledge of the matter.
    Please phone me back - it's a matter of some importance.
    Talking about the world's problems is one thing, but solving them is another matter altogether (= is completely different).
- the situation being dealt with or being discussed: 
    Her resignation is not going to help matters.
- used to say that something has made a bad or difficult situation worse: 
    Three of our players were ill, and to make matters worse, our main scorer had broken his ankle.
- If something is a matter of confidence, luck, waiting, etc. that is all you need for it to happen: 
    Baking a cake isn't difficult - it's just a matter of following the recipe.
- to be very serious and not a situation that people should joke about: 
    Being arrested by the police is no laughing matter.
- the reason for pain, worry, or a problem: 
    What's the matter? Why are you crying?
    What's the matter with your hand? It's bleeding.
    Is anything the matter?
    I don't know what the matter is with the car, but it won't start.
- physical substance in the universe: 
    Some scientists believe that there is about ten times as much matter in the universe as astronomers have observed.
- a substance of a particular kind: 
    Most vegetable matter is compostable.
    There's no waste matter left over.
- a substance or things of a particular type: 
    advertising/printed matter
    Do you find the subject matter of the book (= the subject that the book deals with) interesting?
- used in expressions describing how small an amount or period of time is: 
    The interview was over in a matter of minutes.
    She complained he had short-changed her, but it was only a matter of a few pence.
- to be important, or to affect what happens: 
    We were late but it didn't seem to matter.
    "What did you say?" "Oh, it doesn't matter."
    It doesn't matter what you wear - just as long as you come.
    It didn't matter that our best player was injured after ten minutes - we still won.
    I know Charles doesn't think this project is important, but it matters to me.
idioms:
 as a matter of course
 as a matter of fact
 be (only) a matter of time
 be a matter of life and/or death
 be a matter of opinion
 be a matter of record
 for that matter
 the matter in hand
 no matter
 no matter what, when, why, etc.
 take matters into your own hands
 that's a matter of opinion

wrote /rəʊt/
- past simple of
write 

type /taɪp/
- a particular group of people or things that share similar characteristics and form a smaller division of a larger set: 
    There were so many different types of bread that I didn't know which to buy.
    What type of clothes does she wear?
    It was dark so I didn't notice what type of car it was.
    He's the type of man you could take home to your mother.
    He's very attractive, if you like the blond, athletic type.
    They sell dried flowers and baskets and that type of thing.
    We have a range of moisturizers for all different skin types.
    She was young and she was wearing student-type clothes, so I assumed she was studying here.
    He took me to a bar full of actor types trying to get noticed.
- a person who seems to represent a particular group of people, having all the qualities that you usually connect with that group: 
    He doesn't use fully rounded characters in his plays - he uses types.
- to be the type of person that someone thinks is attractive: 
    He's a nice enough guy - he's just not my type.
    I would have thought Ben was more your type.
- the style and size of printed letters used in a piece of printed writing such as in a newspaper, book, or article: 
    Use bold type for your headings.
    The software allows you to choose from over 20 styles of typeface.
- to write using a machine, either a computer keyboard or a typewriter: 
    She asked me to type a couple of letters.
    He can type very quickly.
    I was typing away into the early hours of the morning just to get it done.
phrasal verbs:
 type sth in
 type sth out/up

opportunity /ˌɒp.əˈtʃuː.nə.ti/
- an occasion or situation that makes it possible to do something that you want to do or have to do, or the possibility of doing something: 
    Everyone will have an opportunity to comment.
    I was never given the opportunity of going to college.
    The exhibition is a unique opportunity to see her later work.
    An ankle injury meant she missed the opportunity to run in the qualifying heat.
    Please contact us at the earliest opportunity (= as soon as possible).
    He goes fishing at every opportunity (= as often as possible).
    I used to love going out dancing, but I don't get much opportunity now.
    He had a golden (= an extremely good) opportunity to score in the first half but squandered it.
- the chance to get a job: 
    employment/job opportunities
    opportunities for young graduates
    There are some great opportunities now for engineers trained in computer-aided design.

king /kɪŋ/
- (the title of) a male ruler of a country, who holds this position because of his royal birth: 
    King Richard II
    the kings and queens of England
- the most important, best, or most respected member of a group of animals, things, or people: 
    The lion is often called the king of the jungle.
    He's the new king of pop music.
- In the game of chess, the king is the most important piece on the board. It can move one square in any direction.
- a card with a picture of a king on it, used in games: 
    the king of hearts
- used as part of the name of something that is larger than the ordinary type: 
    king prawns
    a king penguin
idioms:
 a king's ransom

impossible /ɪmˈpɒs.ə.bəl/
- If an action or event is impossible, it cannot happen or be achieved: 
    It was impossible to sleep because of the noise.
    It seems impossible that I could have walked by without noticing her.
    He made it impossible for me to say no.
    She ate three plates of spaghetti and a dessert? That's impossible. I don't believe it!
- An impossible situation is extremely difficult to deal with or solve: 
    It's an impossible situation - she's got to leave him but she can't bear losing her children.
- An impossible person behaves very badly or is extremely difficult to deal with: 
    I had to leave the job because my boss was impossible.
    My niece is impossible when she's tired - you can't do anything to please her.
- something that cannot be expected to happen or exist: 
    She wants a man who is attractive and funny as well, which is asking the impossible in my opinion.

book /bʊk/
- a written text that can be published in printed or electronic form: 
    Have you read any good books recently?
    He has a new book out (= published).
    She wrote a book on car maintenance.
- a set of pages that have been fastened together inside a cover to be read or written in: 
    a hardback/paperback book
    I took a book with me to read on the plane.
    He writes all his expenses in a little book he carries with him.
- one of the parts that a very long book, such as the Bible, is divided into: 
    the book of Job
- a number of one type of thing fastened together flat inside a cover: 
    a book of stamps/tickets/matches
- the written records of money that a business has spent or received: 
    At the end of the year, the accountant goes over (= checks) the books.
    Running a school is much more of a business than it used to be, - by law we have to balance our books.
- the situation in which a bookmaker accepts and pays out amounts of money that are risked on a particular result: 
    They've already opened/started a book on the result of the next World Cup.
- to arrange to have a seat, room, performer, etc. at a particular time in the future: 
    I've booked us two tickets to see "Carmen"/I've booked two tickets for us to see "Carmen".
    She'd booked a table for four at their favourite restaurant.
    Will booked a seat on the evening flight to Los Angeles.
    We were advised to book early if we wanted to get a room.
    They booked a jazz band for their wedding.
    The hotel/restaurant/theatre is fully booked (up) (= all the rooms/tables/tickets have been taken).
    I'd like to go but I'm booked up (= I have arranged to do other things) until the weekend.
- If a police officer, referee, etc. books someone, they write down the person's name in an official record because they have done something wrong: 
    A football player who is booked twice in a game is sent off the field.
    My grandmother was booked for speeding last week.
idioms:
 be in sb's good/bad books
 be on the books
 go by the book/do sth by the book
 in my book
 one for the books
phrasal verbs:
 book in/book into somewhere
 book sb in/book sb into sth

machine /məˈʃiːn/
- a piece of equipment with several moving parts that uses power to do a particular type of work: 
    The different sizes of eggs are sorted by a machine.
    If I'm not home when you call, leave a message on the machine (= answering machine).
    Don't forget to put the towels in the machine (= washing machine) before you go out.
    I got some chocolate from a vending machine.
- a computer: 
    You'll need a powerful machine for editing videos.
- a vehicle, often a motorcycle: 
    That's a mean (= powerful) machine you've got there, Bill.
- a group of people who control and organize something: 
    Churchill's war machine
    The party machine has swung into action with its preparation for the election.
    It's now up to the government's propaganda machine to restore the leader's image.
- to sew cloth with a sewing machine: 
    I've almost finished making the curtains - I just have to machine the hem.
- to cut or shape metal on a machine: 
    Tungsten carbide tools are used extensively for machining steel.

waste /weɪst/
- an unnecessary or wrong use of money, substances, time, energy, abilities, etc.: 
    That meeting achieved absolutely nothing - it was a complete waste of time.
    She's been unemployed for two years and it's such a waste of her talents.
    My mother couldn't stand waste - she always made us eat everything on our plates.
- to not be used, eaten, etc.: 
    You can even make stock from the bones, so that nothing goes to waste.
- unwanted matter or material of any type, especially what is left after useful substances or parts have been removed: 
    This city produces 20 million tons of household waste each year.
    He opposes any kind of nuclear waste being dumped at sea.
    Millions of gallons of untreated human waste (= excrement) flow into the river every day.
    Oil spills are common, as is the dumping of toxic industrial wastes.
    The Japanese recycle more than half of their waste paper.
- an area of ground in or near a city that is not built on or used in any way: 
    His body had been dumped in an area of waste ground just outside the city.
- large areas of land that are not used to grow crops and have few living animals or plants: 
    the Arctic wastes of northern Siberia
- to use too much of something or use something badly when there is a limited amount of it: 
    You waste a lot of water by taking a bath instead of a shower.
    Come on, let's get started - we've wasted enough time already.
    Don't waste your money on such junk.
- to kill someone
idioms:
 not waste words
 waste your breath
 waste no time
 waste not, want not
 wasted on sb
 waste of space
phrasal verbs:
 waste away

pretend /prɪˈtend/
- to behave as if something is true when you know that it is not, especially in order to deceive people or as a game: 
    He pretended (that) he didn't mind, but I knew that he did.
    The children pretended (that) they were dinosaurs.
    Were you just pretending to be interested?
    She's not really hurt - she's only pretending.
    Of course I was angry - I can't pretend otherwise.
- to not claim something that is false: 
    I don't pretend to be an expert on the subject.
- imaginary or not real: 
    "Do you want a cup of tea?" she asks, offering me a pretend cup.
    They knew the argument was only pretend, but they still got upset.

danger /ˈdeɪn.dʒər/
- the possibility of harm or death to someone: 
    Danger! Keep out!
    He drove so fast that I really felt my life was in danger.
    The doctors say he is now out of danger (= is not expected to die although he has been extremely sick).
    the dangers of rock-climbing
- something or someone that may harm you: 
    Icy roads are a danger to drivers.
    The judge described him as a danger to society.
- the possibility that something bad will happen: 
    If there's any danger of seeing Gary at the party, I'm not going.
    If he carries on like this he's in danger of losing his job.
idioms:
 there's no danger of that!

wall /wɔːl/
- a vertical structure, often made of stone or brick, that divides or surrounds something: 
    The walls in this apartment are so thin you can hear just about every word the neighbours say.
    The walls look a bit bare - can't we put some pictures up?
    We had to climb over a ten-foot wall to get into the garden.
    The Berlin Wall came down in 1989.
- any outer part of a hollow structure in the body: 
    the wall of the uterus/stomach
    an artery wall
- a mass of people or things formed in such a way that you cannot get through or past them: 
    The demonstrators formed a solid wall to stop the police from getting past them.
- in football, a row of players who stand ten yards away from where a free kick is taken in order to make scoring directly from the free kick more difficult: 
    Rooney curved the free kick past the Newcastle defensive wall and inside the far post.
- a large, powerful, usually fast moving mass of something: 
    After the rains, the houses were washed away by a wall of mud/water.
- a way of feeling or behaving that completely prevents two groups of people from communicating with or understanding each other: 
    There is a wall of mistrust between the two groups.
idioms:
 drive sb up the wall
 go to the wall
 hit the wall
 off the wall
 walls have ears

jump /dʒʌmp/
- to push yourself suddenly off the ground and into the air using your legs: 
    The children were jumping up and down with excitement.
    She ran across the grass and jumped into the water.
    He had to jump out of an upstairs window to escape.
    Our cat is always jumping up on/onto the furniture.
- to push yourself suddenly off the ground in order to go over something: 
    Can you jump over/across this stream?
    All the horses are finding it difficult to jump the last fence.
- to move or act suddenly or quickly: 
    He suddenly jumped to his feet/jumped up and left.
    She jumped in/into a taxi and rushed to the station.
- If a noise or action causes you to jump, your body makes a sudden sharp movement because of surprise or fear: 
    The loud explosion made everyone jump.
    I almost jumped out of my skin when I heard a loud crash downstairs.
- to increase suddenly by a large amount: 
    House prices have jumped dramatically.
    The cost of building the road has jumped by 70 percent.
- If a story, film, play, etc. jumps, it moves suddenly between different parts of it: 
    The movie is about his adult life, but it keeps jumping (back) to when he was a child.
    His talk was hard to follow because he kept jumping from one subject to another.
- to avoid or leave out a point or stage from the correct order in a series: 
    You have to follow the instructions exactly, you can't just jump a few steps ahead.
- to attack someone suddenly: 
    They were just walking home when a bunch of guys jumped (on) them.
- to go past or away from something illegally or wrongly: 
    The police video showed that she had jumped the (traffic) lights.
    Several sailors jumped ship (= left their ship without permission) in New York.
- to fail to appear for a court trial after being released until the trial in exchange for payment: 
    I'd never have thought Hugh would jump bail.
- If a place is jumping, it is crowded and full of life: 
    This joint (= place of entertainment) is really jumping tonight.
- a sudden movement off the ground and into the air: 
    He won with a jump of 8.5 metres.
    a parachute jump
    Several horses fell at the last jump (= fence or other thing to be jumped over).
- a sudden sharp movement because of surprise or fear: 
    The door slammed and Rita woke up with a jump.
- a sudden increase: 
    Interest rates are now at 6.75 - that's a jump of almost 2 percent.
idioms:
 be jumping up and down
 go (and) jump in the lake
 jump all over sb
 jump down sb's throat
 jump for joy
 jump in with both feet
 jump the gun
 jump rope
 jump through hoops
 jump to conclusions
 jump to it
 jump to sb's defence
 jump the shark
 be/stay/keep one jump ahead
 get a jump on sb/sth
phrasal verbs:
 jump at sth
 jump in
 jump on sb
 jump out at sb

proof /pruːf/
- a fact or piece of information that shows that something exists or is true: 
    Do they have any proof that it was Hampson who stole the goods?
    I have a suspicion that he's having an affair, though I don't have any concrete (= definite) proof.
    If anyone needs proof of Andrew Davies' genius as a writer, this novel is it.
    "How old are you?" "21." "Do you have any proof on you?"
    Keep your receipt as proof of purchase.
- a printed copy of something that is examined and corrected before the final copies are printed: 
    I was busy correcting proofs.
- of the stated alcoholic strength, a higher number meaning a greater amount of alcohol: 
    It says on the bottle that it's 60 percent proof.
- providing protection against something: 
    No household security devices are proof against (= protect completely against) the determined burglar.
    Her virtue would be proof against his charms.
- to treat a surface with a substance that will protect it against something, especially water
- protecting against, or not damaged by, a particular thing: 
    a bullet-proof vest
    a waterproof/wind-proof jacket
    frost-proof pots for the garden
idioms:
 the proof of the pudding (is in the eating)

complete /kəmˈpliːt/
- to make whole or perfect: 
    Complete the sentence with one of the adjectives provided.
    He only needs two more cards to complete the set.
    All she needed to complete her happiness was a baby.
- to write all the details asked for on a form or other document: 
    Have you completed your application form yet?
- to finish doing something: 
    He's just completed filming his 17th feature film.
    The palace took over 20 years to complete.
    She will complete her studies in France.
- very great or to the largest degree possible: 
    The man's a complete fool!
    I need a break, a complete change of scene.
    I made a complete and utter mess of it!
- with all the parts: 
    the complete works of Oscar Wilde
    The report comes complete with (= including) diagrams and colour photographs.
    Sun, sand, and romance - her holiday was complete.

arrest /əˈrest/
- If the police arrest someone, they take them away to ask them about a crime that they might have committed: 
    He was arrested when customs officers found drugs in his bag.
    The police arrested her for drinking and driving.
- to stop or interrupt the development of something: 
    The treatment has so far done little to arrest the spread of the cancer.
- to attract or catch someone's attention: 
    A photo of a small boy arrested my attention.
- the act of arresting someone: 
    Two arrests were made, but the men were later released without charge.
    She was stopped outside the shop and placed/put under arrest.

perfectly /ˈpɜː.fekt.li/
- in a perfect way: 
    The jacket fits perfectly, the skirt not so well.
    They're perfectly suited.
- used to emphasize the word that follows: 
    To be perfectly honest, I don't care any more.
    You know perfectly well what the matter is.
    I made it perfectly clear to him what I meant.
    I was perfectly happy on my own.

warm /wɔːm/
- having or producing a comfortably high temperature, although not hot: 
    Are you warm enough or do you want me to put the heating on?
    I put my hands in my pockets to keep them warm.
- Warm clothes and covers are made of a material that keeps you warm: 
    I don't have a warm winter coat.
    Those gloves look nice and warm.
- A warm colour is one that is based on or contains a colour such as red, yellow, or orange that suggests warmth.
- a warm place: 
    It's cold standing out there - come into the warm.
- friendly and loving: 
    They're a very warm family.
    He has a lovely warm smile.
    I'd like to give a warm welcome to our guests this evening.
- (especially in children's games) almost guessing a correct answer or discovering a hidden object: 
    You're getting warmer!
- to (cause to) become warm (= less cold): 
    You're so cold - come and warm your hands by the fire.
    Your supper's just warming through in the oven.
    We can warm (up) the room pretty quickly with this electric heater.
phrasal verbs:
 warm down
 warm sth over
 warm to sb
 warm to sth
 warm (sb/sth) up
 warm (sb) up
 warm sth up
 warm up

pull /pʊl/
- to move something towards yourself, sometimes with great physical effort: 
    Could you help me move this bookcase over there? You pull and I'll push.
    He pulled the chair away from the desk.
    He pulled the heavy box across the floor to the door.
    He pulled the door open.
    The car was pulling a caravan.
    The sun was so strong we had to pull down the blinds.
    She pulled out the drawer.
- to take something out of or away from a place, especially using physical effort: 
    He pulled off his sweater.
    The dentist pulled both teeth out.
    I spent the morning pulling up the weeds in the flowerbeds.
- to remove or stop something that was going to be published or broadcast, especially because it is found to be offensive or not accurate: 
    When officials realized the cultural gaffe, the company pulled the ad and apologized.
- to move in the stated direction: 
    During the last lap of the race one of the runners began to pull ahead.
    We waved as the train pulled out of the station.
    Our armies are pulling back on all fronts.
- to take hold of something and use effort to move your body forwards or up: 
    She pulled herself up the stairs, holding onto the rail.
    He put his hands on the side of the pool and pulled himself out of the water.
- to attract a person or people: 
    The show has certainly pulled (in) the crowds.
- to succeed in starting a sexual relationship with someone: 
    He certainly knows how to pull women.
    Did Tracy pull at the nightclub last night?
- to injure a muscle by stretching it too much: 
    I pulled a muscle in my back lifting some drawers.
    He pulled a hamstring.
- to perform a dishonest action: 
    The gang that pulled the bank robbery were all arrested.
    No one's gonna pull that kind of trick on me!
- to get information from the internet, after asking or searching for it: 
    Companies should encourage customers to pull information from their website, thus putting the customer in control.
- the act of pulling something towards yourself: 
    Give the rope a hard pull.
- something that you pull to make something work or to open something: 
    a curtain pull
    a drawer pull
- something that attracts people: 
    "How can we persuade people to come to the meeting?" "A glass of wine is quite a good pull."
- the physical or emotional power to attract something: 
    The greater the mass of an object, the greater its gravitational pull.
    The movie's all-star cast should give it a lot of pull.
- influence: 
    He's still got quite a bit of pull in the club - he could probably get you elected.
idioms:
 like pulling teeth
 not pull any/your punches
 pull sth out of the bag/hat
 pull your socks up
 pull sb up short
 pull your weight
 pull a fast one
 pull a gun, knife, etc. on sb
 pull out all the stops
 pull rank
 pull strings
 pull the other leg/one (it's got bells on)!
 pull the plug
 pull the rug from under sb's feet
 pull the strings
 pull up short
 be on the pull
phrasal verbs:
 pull sth/sb apart
 pull sth apart
 pull at sth
 pull away
 pull back (from sth)
 pull sth back
 pull sth down
 pull sb down
 pull down sth
 pull in/pull into somewhere
 pull sb in
 pull sth off
 pull off
 pull sth on
 pull on
 pull out
 pull (sb/sth) out
 pull over
 pull through (sth)
 pull (sb) through (sth)
 pull together
 pull sth together
 pull yourself together
 pull sb up
 pull sth up
 pull up

twice /twaɪs/
- two times: 
    I've already asked him twice.
    The post comes twice daily (= two times every day).
    There are twice as many houses in this area as there used to be.
    The state is at least twice as big as England.
    He's twice her size (= much bigger than she is).

easy /ˈiː.zi/
- needing little effort: 
    an easy exam
    Would a ten o'clock appointment be easier for you?
    It's easy to see why he's so popular.
    She's very easy to talk to.
    The easiest thing to do would be for us to take the train home.
    It isn't easy being a parent.
    Getting into the movie business is no easy matter.
    I don't trust that easy (= relaxed) charm of his.
    My car can do 250 kph, easy.
- comfortable or calm; free from worry, pain, etc.: 
    They both retired and went off to lead an easy life in the Bahamas.
    I don't feel easy about leaving him alone in the house all day.
    With the harvest finished, I was able to relax with an easy mind/conscience.
idioms:
 an easy touch
 (as) easy as pie/ABC/anything/falling off a log
 easier said than done
 the easiest thing in the world
 easy come, easy go
 easy does it!
 be easy game/meat
 easy on the eye/ear
 go easy
 I'm easy
 on easy street
 take it/things easy

suit /suːt/
- a jacket and trousers or a jacket and skirt that are made from the same material: 
    All the businessmen were wearing pinstripe suits.
    She wore a dark blue suit.
- a set of clothes or a piece of clothing to be worn in a particular situation or while doing a particular activity: 
    a diving/protective/ski, etc. suit
    a swimsuit
    a spacesuit
    a suit of armour
- a problem taken to a law court by an ordinary person or an organization rather than the police in order to obtain a legal decision: 
    He brought (US also filed) a $12 million libel suit against the newspaper, claiming his reputation had been damaged.
    a malpractice/negligence/paternity suit
- any of the four types of card in a set of playing cards, each having a different shape printed on it: 
    The four suits in a pack of cards are hearts, spades, clubs, and diamonds.
- a man who works in an office and wears a suit, especially a man with a high position in a company who is considered not to have human feelings and good ideas
- to be right for a particular person, situation, or occasion: 
    A lot of corn is grown in this area - the soil seems to suit it very well.
    The city lifestyle seems to suit her - she looks great.
- (usually of a colour or style of clothes) to make someone look more attractive: 
    You should wear more red - it suits you.
    Short skirts don't really suit me - I don't have the legs for them.
- to be convenient and cause the least difficulty for someone: 
    We could go now or this afternoon - whatever time suits you best.
    "How about eight o'clock at the cinema?" "That suits me fine."
idioms:
 suit yourself!
 suit sb (right) down to the ground
phrasal verbs:
 suit up

romantic /rəʊˈmæn.tɪk/
- relating to love or a close loving relationship: 
    a romantic novel/comedy
    You used to be so romantic, but now you never tell me that you love me.
    I suppose he is quite romantic - he sends me flowers on my birthday and tells me I'm looking beautiful and so on.
- exciting and mysterious and having a strong effect on your emotions: 
    We thought that Egypt was an incredibly romantic country.
- not practical and having a lot of ideas that are not related to real life: 
    She has a romantic idea of what it's like to be a struggling young artist.
- someone who is not practical and has ideas that are not related to real life: 
    You're a hopeless/incurable romantic.
- relating to a style of art, music, and literature, popular in Europe in the late 18th and early 19th centuries, that deals with the beauty of nature and human emotions: 
    Beethoven, Schumann, and Chopin were leading Romantic composers.
    Romantic poets such as Shelley and Coleridge
- someone who follows the late 18th and early 19th century ideas of Romanticism, or who creates art, music, or literature in the Romantic style: 
    The German Romantics emphasized the uniqueness of each intimate experience. 
    He traces art history through the Romantics and Daumier and Degas and then onto Picasso.

drug /drʌɡ/
- any natural or artificially made chemical that is used as a medicine: 
    anti-cancer/fertility/pain-killing drugs
    a prescription drug
    drug therapy
    He takes several drugs for his condition.
- any natural or artificially made chemical that is taken for pleasure, to improve someone's performance of an activity, or because a person cannot stop using it: 
    illegal drugs
    a drug addict
    drug addiction/abuse
    She began to suspect that her son was on/taking/doing drugs.
    She was suspected of being a drug dealer.
    His son died of a drug overdose.
- any activity that you cannot stop doing: 
    Work is a drug for him.
- to give a person or animal a chemical that causes him, her, or it to lose feeling or become unconscious: 
    The killer confessed that he often drugged his victims before he killed them.
    She was heavily drugged to ease the pain.
    We visited her in hospital but she was drugged to the eyeballs (= had been given a lot of drugs) and I don't think she even knew we were there.

comfortable /ˈkʌm.fə.tə.bəl/
- Comfortable furniture and clothes provide a pleasant feeling and do not give you any physical problems: 
    a comfortable bed/sofa
    comfortable shoes/trousers
- relaxed and free from pain: 
    Are you comfortable or shall I turn the heat down?
    I don't feel comfortable in high heels.
    Do sit down and make yourself comfortable.
- If an ill or injured person in hospital is comfortable, they are is not feeling too much pain.
- If you are comfortable with a situation, you are not worried about it: 
    I'm not comfortable with the idea of leaving her on her own.
- having enough money for a good standard of living: 
    They're not fabulously rich or anything, but they're quite comfortable.
- If you win a game or competition by a comfortable amount, you win easily: 
    a comfortable lead/victory

fit /fɪt/
fit | -tt-
- to be the right size or shape for someone or something: 
    That jacket fits you perfectly.
    The dress fits like a glove (= very well).
    Our new sofa doesn't fit through the door.
    I don't think another desk will fit into this classroom.
    My car's too big to fit in this space.
- to be suitable for something: 
    With her qualifications, she should fit the job perfectly.
    Let the punishment fit the crime.
    I'm sure we'll have something to fit your requirements.
- to provide something and put it in the correct position: 
    All the carpets we sell are fitted free.
    She's been fitted with an artificial leg.
- to have a fit (= sudden attack of uncontrolled movements)
- healthy and strong, especially as a result of exercise: 
    I jog to keep fit.
    You need to be very fit to hike the Inca Trail.
- suitable for a particular purpose or activity: 
    She's not fit for the level of responsibility she's been given.
- to not be able to do something because you are upset, ill, drunk, etc.: 
    He's very upset and is in no fit state to drive.
- safe for people to eat
- Something that is fit for purpose does what it is meant to do.
- to consider an action or decision to be correct for the situation: 
    Just do whatever you think fit - I'm sure you'll make the right decision.
    Spend the money as you see fit.
- sexually attractive: 
    I met this really fit bloke in a club last night.
- a sudden attack of illness when someone cannot control their movements and becomes unconscious: 
    an epileptic fit
    He had a fit at work and collapsed.
- a sudden, uncontrolled period of doing something or feeling something: 
    a coughing/sneezing fit
    She hit him in a fit of anger.
- the way that something fits: 
    These shoes are a perfect fit.
    The trousers were a good fit but the jacket was too small.
    Check the fit of the pieces before gluing them in place.
idioms:
 fit the bill
 fit to burst
 fit to drop
 if the cap fits (wear it)
 be (as) fit as a fiddle
 fit to be tied
 have/throw a fit
 in fits of laughter
 in/by fits and starts
phrasal verbs:
 fit in
 fit sb/sth in
 fit in with sth
 fit sth out
 fit sth up
 fit sb up

divorce /dɪˈvɔːs/
- an official or legal process to end a marriage: 
    The last I heard they were getting a divorce.
    Divorce is on the increase.
    Ellie wants a divorce.
    What are the chances of a marriage ending in divorce?
- a separation: 
    Why is there such a divorce between the arts and the sciences in this country's schools?
- to end your marriage by an official or legal process: 
    She's divorcing her husband.
- to separate two subjects: 
    How can you divorce the issues of environmental protection and overpopulation?
- a man who is divorced and who has not married again

begin /bɪˈɡɪn/
begin | present participle beginning | past tense began | past participle begun
- to start to happen or exist: 
    What time does the concert begin?
    The bridge was begun five years ago and the estimated cost has already doubled.
    The film they want to watch begins at seven.
    The meeting began promisingly, but then things started to go wrong.
- to start to do something: 
    I began the book six months ago, but I can't seem to finish it.
    Jane has just begun learning to drive.
    If you want to learn to play a musical instrument, it might be a good idea to begin on something simple.
    After waiting for half an hour she was beginning to get angry.
    I have so much to tell you, I don't know where to begin.
- to start speaking: 
    "Well," he began. "I don't quite know how to tell you this."
- to have something as the first part: 
    The word "cat" begins with the letter "c".
idioms:
 to begin with
 can't (even) begin

closely /ˈkləʊs.li/
- in a way that is directly connected or has a strong relationship: 
    English and German are closely related.
    Both politicians have been closely associated with the movement for some time.
    We are working closely with the police.
- carefully and paying attention to details: 
    Pollution levels are closely monitored.
    He looked again more closely at the marks.
- without a big difference between two people, groups, or things: 
    The two teams are closely matched.
    It was a closely fought election.
- in a way that tries hard to keep something secret: 
    a closely guarded secret
- not far in time or position: 
    The Swiss boat is in the lead, followed closely by the French.

ruin /ˈruː.ɪn/
- to spoil or destroy something completely: 
    Huge modern hotels have ruined this once unspoilt coastline.
    Her injury ruined her chances of winning the race.
- to cause a person or company to lose all their money or their good reputation: 
    Cheap imported goods are ruining many businesses.
    If there's a scandal I'll be ruined!
- the process or state of being spoiled or destroyed: 
    The car accident meant the ruin of all her hopes.
    They let the palace fall into ruin.
- a situation in which a person or company has lost all their money or their reputation: 
    Many companies are on the edge/brink/verge of ruin.
    Alcohol was my ruin (= the thing that spoiled my life)
- the broken parts that are left of an ancient building or town: 
    We visited a Roman ruin.
    the ruins of the ancient city of Carthage
- the broken parts that are left of a building or town that has been destroyed by bombs, fire, etc.: 
    They live in the worst of the city's bombed-out ruins.
    Nine bodies lie among the smoking ruins.
- (of a building or city) to be extremely badly damaged so that most of it has fallen down: 
    The town lay in ruins after years of bombing.
- to be in an extremely bad state: 
    The economy was in ruins after the war.

although /ɔːlˈðəʊ/
- despite the fact that: 
    She walked home by herself, although she knew that it was dangerous.
    He decided to go, although I begged him not to.
- but: 
    He's rather shy, although he's not as bad as he used to be.
    She'll be coming tonight, although I don't know exactly when.

smile /smaɪl/
- a happy or friendly expression on the face in which the ends of the mouth curve up slightly, often with the lips moving apart so that the teeth can be seen: 
    Amy had a big/broad smile on her face.
    She has a nice smile.
    He winked and gave me a smile.
    It's nice to be able to bring a smile to people's faces (= make people smile).
- to make a happy or friendly expression in which the corners of your mouth curve up: 
    He smiled and shook my hand.
    When he smiled at me I knew everything was all right.
    Esme's so cheerful - she's always smiling.
    I couldn't help smiling when I thought of how pleased she was going to be.
    He smiled politely as Mary apologized for her drunken friends.
    He smiled to himself as he thought about his new girlfriend.
    He smiled the smile of a man who knew victory was within reach.
- to express or say something with a smile: 
    He smiled his congratulations and left without another word.
    "Don't you worry about a thing. Everything's going to be just fine," smiled Robin reassuringly.
idioms:
 be all smiles
phrasal verbs:
 smile on sth/sb

laugh /lɑːf/
- to smile while making sounds with your voice that show you think something is funny or you are happy: 
    They laughed at her jokes.
    I couldn't stop laughing.
    I said he'd have to give a talk and he laughed nervously.
    She's so funny - she really makes me laugh.
    It's very rare that a book is so good you actually laugh out loud.
    It was so funny, I burst out laughing (= laughed suddenly and loudly).
    I laughed till I cried.
- the act or sound of laughing: 
    a loud/nervous laugh
    I was embarrassed at the time, but I had a good laugh about it later.
- an enjoyable or funny activity: 
    "How was the party?" "Oh, it was a laugh."
- someone who is funny: 
    You'd like Sharon - she's a good laugh.
idioms:
 be laughed out of court
 be laughing
 be laughing all the way to the bank
 be laughing on the other side of your face
 be no laughing matter
 don't make me laugh!
 he who laughs last, laughs longest/best
 laugh your head off
 laugh in sb's face
 laugh like a drain
 laugh up your sleeve
 you've got to laugh
 for a laugh
 you're having a laugh
phrasal verbs:
 laugh at sb/sth
 laugh sth off

fish /fɪʃ/
fish | plural fish or fishes
- an animal that lives in water, is covered with scales, and breathes by taking water in through its mouth, or the flesh of these animals eaten as food: 
    Several large fish live in the pond.
    Sanjay caught the biggest fish I've ever seen.
    I don't like fish (= don't like to eat fish).
- a strange person
- to try to find something, using your fingers to look for it: 
    She fished in her tool box for the right screwdriver.
- to try to get something, without asking directly: 
    The director was fishing for information about our strategy.
    He's always fishing for compliments (= trying to make people say good things about him).
- to catch fish from a river, sea, lake, etc., or to try to do this: 
    They're fishing for tuna.
    The sea here has been fished intensely over the last ten years.
- If an area of water has been fished out, all or most of the fish in it have been caught.
idioms:
 be a big fish in a small pond
 be like a fish out of water
 be neither fish nor fowl
 have bigger/other fish to fry
 there are plenty more fish in the sea
 a fishing expedition
 fish in troubled waters
 fish or cut bait
phrasal verbs:
 fish sth out

treat /triːt/
- to behave towards someone or deal with something in a particular way: 
    My parents treated us all the same when we were kids.
    He treated his wife very badly.
    It's wrong to treat animals as if they had no feelings.
    I treat remarks like that with the contempt that they deserve.
- to use drugs, exercises, etc. to cure a person of a disease or heal an injury: 
    He is being treated for a rare skin disease.
    Western medicine tends to treat the symptoms and not the cause.
- to buy or pay for something for another person: 
    Put your money away - I'm going to treat you (to this).
    I'm going to treat myself to (= buy for myself) a new pair of sandals.
- to put a special substance on material such as wood, cloth, metal, etc. or put it through a special process, in order to protect it from damage or decay: 
    The material has been treated with resin to make it waterproof.
- a special and enjoyable occasion or experience: 
    We're going to Italy for the weekend - it's my birthday treat.
    As a special treat, I'll take you to my favourite restaurant.
- an occasion when I, you, etc. buy or pay for something for another person: 
    No, you paid for dinner last time - this is my treat.
idioms:
 treat sb like dirt
 treat sb like royalty
 a treat

fear /fɪər/
- an unpleasant emotion or thought that you have when you are frightened or worried by something dangerous, painful, or bad that is happening or might happen: 
    Trembling with fear, she handed over the money to the gunman.
    Even when the waves grew big, the boy showed no (signs of) fear.
    I have a fear of heights.
    The low profit figures simply confirmed my worst fears.
    There are fears that the disease will spread to other countries.
- to be frightened that you might be killed: 
    Lakisha sat inside, in fear of her life, until the police came.
- to be no possibility that a particular thing will happen: 
    Greta knows the city well, so there's no fear of us getting lost (= we will not get lost).
- because you are worried that a particular thing might happen: 
    They wouldn't let their cat outside for fear (that) it would get run over.
    I didn't want to move for fear of waking her up.
- to be frightened of something or someone unpleasant: 
    Most older employees fear unemployment.
    What do you fear most?
- to be worried or frightened that something bad might happen or might have happened: 
    Police fear (that) the couple may have drowned.
    It is feared (that) as many as two hundred passengers may have died in the crash.
    We huddled together, fearing we might be killed.
    Fearing to go herself, she sent her son to find out the news.
- used to give someone news of something bad that has happened or might happen: 
    I fear (that) she's already left.
idioms:
 have fears for sb/sth
 no fear!
 put the fear of God into you
 without fear or favour
 never fear
phrasal verbs:
 fear for sb/sth

amber /ˈæm.bər/
- a hard, transparent, yellowish-brown substance that was formed in ancient times from resin (= a substance produced by trees) and is used in jewellery: 
    He has a collection of prehistoric insects preserved in amber.
- the yellowish-orange traffic light that shows between the green and the red to warn drivers that the lights are about to change: 
    The lights turned to amber.

guy /ɡaɪ/
- a man: 
    He's a really nice guy.
    Do you mean the guy with the blonde hair and glasses?
- used to address a group of people of either sex: 
    Come on, you guys, let's go.
- in the UK, a model of a man that is burned on a large fire on Guy Fawkes Night
- a rope that at one end is connected to a tent or pole and at the other end is fastened to the ground by a peg, keeping the tent or pole in position

otherwise /ˈʌð.ə.waɪz/
- used after an order or suggestion to show what the result will be if you do not follow that order or suggestion: 
    I'd better write it down, otherwise I'll forget it.
    Call home, otherwise your parents will start to worry.
- differently, or in another way: 
    The police believe he is the thief, but all the evidence suggests otherwise (= that he is not).
    Under the Bill of Rights, a person is presumed innocent until proved otherwise (= guilty).
    Protestors were executed, jailed or otherwise persecuted.
    Marion Morrison, otherwise known as the film star John Wayne, was born in 1907.
    I can't meet you on Tuesday - I'm otherwise engaged/occupied (= doing something else).
- except for what has just been referred to: 
    The bike needs a new wheel, but otherwise it's in good condition.
    The poor sound quality ruined an otherwise beautiful film.
- used to show that something is completely different from what you think it is or from what was previously stated: 
    He might have told you he was a qualified electrician, but the truth is quite otherwise.
idioms:
 or otherwise

excited /ɪkˈsaɪ.tɪd/
- feeling very happy and enthusiastic: 
    An excited crowd waited for the singer to arrive.
    Are you getting excited about your holiday?
    He said he is excited to return to San Diego.
    I was excited that he was coming to visit.
    She's excited at the chance to share what she's learned with others.
    "Are you excited for your first Oscar nomination?" she asked.
idioms:
 be nothing to get excited about

mail /meɪl/
- the letters, etc. that are sent to or from people, or the system for sending letters, etc. from place to place: 
    She spent the morning reading and answering her mail.
    All of our customers will be contacted by mail.
    The book came in yesterday's mail.
    Some strange things get sent through the mail.
- email: 
    I had almost 50 unread mails in my inbox.
    You have mail.
- → 
chain mail 
- to send a letter, etc. or to email something: 
    She mailed it last week but it still hasn't arrived.
    I promised to mail him the article/mail the article to him.
- in the UK, used in the name of some newspapers: 
    the Daily Mail
    the Hull Mail

green /ɡriːn/
- of a colour between blue and yellow; of the colour of grass: 
    green vegetables
- relating to the protection of the environment: 
    green politics/issues
    a green campaigner/activist
    the Green Party
- to do more to protect nature and the environment: 
    The Chancellor proposed a crackdown on car and plane emissions, and the introduction of tax incentives to go green.
- covered with grass, trees, and other plants: 
    the green hills of Ireland
- (especially of fruit) not ready to eat, or (of wood) not dry enough to use: 
    green bananas/tomatoes
- not experienced or trained: 
    I was very green when I started working there.
- the colour of grass; a colour between blue and yellow: 
    light/pale green
    dark/bottle green
- an area planted with grass, especially for use by the public: 
    Children were playing on the village green.
- used as a part of a name: 
    Sheep's Green
- a flat area of grass surrounding the hole on a golf course
- the leaves of green vegetables such as spinach or cabbage when eaten as food
- a member of the Green Party: 
    He used to be a Liberal, but now he's a Green.
idioms:
 be green with envy
 give the green light to sth
 go/turn green

stole /stəʊl/
- past simple of steal
- a long, narrow piece of cloth or fur that is worn around the shoulders by women, usually on special occasions: 
    a mink stole
- a long, narrow piece of cloth, especially silk, worn over the shoulders by some priests in the Christian Church during religious ceremonies

notice /ˈnəʊ.tɪs/
- to see or become conscious of something or someone: 
    I noticed a crack in the ceiling.
    Mary waved at the man but he didn't seem to notice.
    He noticed (that) the woman was staring at him.
    Did you notice how she did that?
- to bring someone to the attention of the public, usually because of an unusual skill, etc.: 
    She was first noticed by the critics at the age of twelve, and went on to become a world-famous violinist.
- (a board, piece of paper, etc. containing) information or instructions: 
    There was a large notice on the wall saying "No Parking".
    I saw a notice in the paper announcing their marriage.
- printed statements of opinion in the newspapers about plays, films, books, etc.: 
    The musical has received wonderful notices.
- information or a warning given about something that is going to happen in the future: 
    The next time you visit, can you give me more notice?
    The first responders are ready to spring into action at a moment's notice.
    The building is closed until further notice (= until another official announcement is made).
- the period of time that you must work after you have said that you are leaving your job, or after you have been asked to leave: 
    Do I have to work out my notice?
- to ask someone who works for you to leave their job, usually after a particular period of time: 
    My boss gave me a month's notice.
    They gave me my notice yesterday.
- to tell your employer that you intend to leave your job after a particular period of time: 
    I handed in my notice yesterday.
- attention: 
    It has come to/been brought to my notice (= I have been told) that you have been late for work every day this week.
- to give attention to something: 
    I asked him to drive more slowly, but he didn't take any notice.
    Don't take any notice of/Take no notice of what your mother says - she's just in a bad mood.
idioms:
 at a moment's/two hours'/three weeks', etc. notice
 at short notice

excellent /ˈek.səl.ənt/
- extremely good: 
    The food was excellent.
    Her car is in excellent condition.
    The fall in interest rates is excellent news for borrowers.
    "Our sales are up for the third year in a row." "Excellent." (= I'm extremely pleased.)

pop /pɒp/
- modern popular music, usually with a strong beat, created with electrical or electronic equipment, and easy to listen to and remember: 
    pop music
    a pop concert/song
    What do you want to listen to - jazz, classical, or pop?
    The song reached No. 32 in the pop charts.
    She wants to be a pop singer/star like Lady Gaga.
- a short, sharp sound like something exploding: 
    I heard a pop and the lights went out.
- a father: 
    Hey Pop, can I do anything to help?
- a sweet fizzy drink (= with bubbles), usually with a fruit flavour: 
    a bottle of pop
- to criticize someone, especially in public: 
    She never expected anyone from her own family to take a pop at her.
- each particular occasion or object in a series: 
    She gives lectures and gets paid $5,000 a pop.
- something such as a colour that looks very bright and noticeable next to something else: 
    Last season was all about small pops of colour: a turquoise shoe, an emerald bag, or a slash of scarlet lipstick.
- to go to a particular place: 
    I've just got to pop into the bank to get some money.
    Paula popped out for a minute.
    Would you pop upstairs and see if Grandad is okay?
    Why don't you pop in/over and see us this afternoon?
- to (cause something to) make a short explosive sound, often by breaking something: 
    The kids were popping all the birthday balloons.
    The music played and champagne corks popped.
- If your ears pop, you experience a strange noise and feeling in your ears as a result of a sudden change in air pressure: 
    My ears always pop as the plane comes in to land.
- to move quickly and suddenly, especially from a closed space: 
    When you open the box, a clown pops out.
- to put or take something quickly: 
    If you pop the pizza in the oven now, it'll be ready in 15 minutes.
    He popped his head into the room/around the door and said "Lunchtime!"
    Pop your shoes on and let's go.
- to take pills regularly, especially ones containing an illegal drug: 
    A decade of heavy drinking and popping pills ruined her health.
- to open or release something quickly: 
    The taxi driver said that he stopped immediately and popped the trunk.
- to be very noticeable and bright, especially when seen next to something of a different colour: 
    Splashes of yellow, blue, pink, and orange pop against a black background.
- enjoyed by many people and easy to understand: 
    Dario Fo, the famous Italian playwright, is a pop Pirandello.
    "Silence of the Lambs" was pop movie-making at its best.
- abbreviation for
population : 
    The village (pop. 3,915) is a bustling river port.
idioms:
 your eyes pop out of your head
 pop your clogs
 pop the question
 go pop
phrasal verbs:
 pop off
 pop sb off
 pop up

paper /ˈpeɪ.pər/
- thin, flat material made from crushed wood or cloth, used for writing, printing, or drawing on: 
    a piece/sheet of paper
    writing paper
    Dictionaries are usually printed on thin paper.
    a paper bag
    This card is printed on recycled paper (= paper made from used paper).
    Get the idea down on paper (= write it) before you forget it.
    She works on paper (= writes things on paper) because she hates computers.
- a newspaper: 
    a daily/weekly/local/national paper
    The photo was on the front page of all the papers.
- official documents, especially ones that show who you are: 
    The border guards stopped me and asked to see my papers.
- a set of printed questions for an exam: 
    Candidates must answer two questions from each paper.
    The geography paper is not till next week.
- a piece of writing on a particular subject written by an expert and usually published in a book or journal, or read aloud to other people: 
    He will give a paper on thermodynamics at a conference in Berlin.
- a short piece of writing on a particular subject, especially one done by students as part of the work for a course: 
    Mr Jones thought my history paper was terrific.
    For homework I want you to write a paper on endangered species.
- to cover a wall, room, etc. with wallpaper
idioms:
 sb couldn't act, argue, fight, etc. their way out of a paper bag
 on paper
 a paper chase
phrasal verbs:
 paper over sth

bottom /ˈbɒt.əm/
- the lowest part of something: 
    He stood at the bottom of the stairs and called up to me.
    Extra information will be found at the bottom of the page.
    The ship had sunk to the bottom of the sea/the sea bottom.
    At school, Einstein was (at the) bottom of (= the least successful student in) his class.
    The manager of the hotel started at the bottom (= in one of the least important jobs) 30 years ago, as a porter.
    The rich usually get richer, while the people at the bottom (= at the lowest position in society) stay there.
- the lower part of a piece of clothing that consists of two parts: 
    I've found my bikini bottoms but not my top.
    Have you seen my pyjama bottoms anywhere?
- the farthest part of something: 
    His feet stuck out from the bottom of the bed.
    They live at the bottom of our street (= the other end of the street from us).
- the part of your body that you sit on: 
    She slipped and fell on her bottom.
idioms:
 at bottom
 be at the bottom of sth
 bottoms up!
 from the bottom of your heart
 get to the bottom of sth
 the bottom drops/falls out of the market

note /nəʊt/
- a short piece of writing: 
    He left a note to say he would be home late.
    There's a note on the door saying when the shop will open again.
- a short explanation or an extra piece of information that is given at the bottom of a page, at the back of a book, etc.: 
    For more information see Note 3.
- information written on paper: 
    The wind blew my notes all over the room.
    The reporter took notes throughout the interview.
- a single sound at a particular level, usually in music, or a written symbol that represents this sound: 
    high/low notes
    She played three long notes on the piano.
    The engine noise suddenly changed its note and rose to a whine.
- an emotion or a way of expressing something: 
    There was a note of caution in her letter.
    His speech struck just the right note.
    The meeting ended on an optimistic note.
- a piece of paper money: 
    a €20 note
    He took a wad of notes from his pocket.
- importance, or the fact that something deserves attention: 
    There was nothing of note in the latest report.
- to notice something: 
    They noted the consumers' growing demand for quicker service.
    Please note (that) we will be closed on Saturday.
    Note how easy it is to release the catch quickly.
- to give your attention to something by discussing it or making a written record of it: 
    He said the weather was beyond our control, noting that last summer was one of the hottest on record.
    In the article, she notes several cases of medical incompetence.
idioms:
 make/take a note
 take note of sth
phrasal verbs:
 note sth down

sudden /ˈsʌd.ən/
- happening or done quickly and without warning: 
    Drop the gun, put your hands in the air, and don't make any sudden movements.
    He had a sudden heart attack while he was on holiday.
    First they announce their engagement and then they tell me Angie's pregnant - it's all a bit sudden.
idioms:
 all of a sudden

church /tʃɜːtʃ/
- a building for Christian religious activities: 
    The town has four churches.
    a church spire/tower
    a church hall (= a building belonging to a church, with a large room for meetings)
- an official Christian religious organization: 
    All the local churches were represented at the memorial service.
    He went on a walking trip with some of his friends from church.
- an occasion when this organization meets as a group of people: 
    I'll see her after church.
    They go to church every Sunday.
    church services
- Christian religious organizations: 
    Some people think the Church shouldn't interfere in politics.
idioms:
 go into/enter the church

bathroom /ˈbɑːθ.ruːm/
- a room with a bath and/or shower and often a toilet: 
    The house has four bedrooms and two bathrooms.
- a room with a toilet in it: 
    Where's the bathroom?
idioms:
 go to the bathroom

sing /sɪŋ/
sing | sang | sung
- to make musical sounds with the voice, usually a tune with words: 
    The children sang two songs by Schubert at the school concert.
    We were woken early by the sound of the birds singing.
    Your grandmother would like you to sing for/to her.
    Will you sing us a song/sing a song to us?
    She sang her baby to sleep every night.
    Pavarotti is singing Rodolfo (= singing the part of Rodolfo) in "La Bohème" at La Scala this week.
    You need to sing up (= sing louder).
- to make or be filled with a (high) ringing sound: 
    A bullet sang past the top of the soldier's head.
- written abbreviation for 
singular 
idioms:
 sing for your supper
 sing the praises of sb/sth
phrasal verbs:
 sing along

glass /ɡlɑːs/
- a hard, transparent material, used to make windows, bottles, and other objects: 
    coloured/broken glass
    a glass jar/dish/ornament
    It's a huge window made from a single pane of glass.
- objects made from glass when thought of as a group: 
    The museum has a fine collection of valuable glass.
- in a glasshouse: 
    In cool climates you have to grow tropical plants under glass.
- a small container for drinks made of glass or similar material, with a flat base and usually with no handle: 
    a beer/wine glass
    She poured some milk into a glass.
- a type or amount of drink contained in a glass: 
    Would you like a glass of water?
    Two glasses of lemonade, please.
- two small pieces of special glass or plastic in a frame worn in front of the eyes to improve sight: 
    a pair of glasses
    reading glasses
- a 
barometer : 
    The glass has been falling/rising (= showing a change to bad/good weather) all day.
- to attack someone with a broken bottle or glass: 
    He was sentenced to two years in jail for glassing a student in a bar.
    I got glassed in the face and needed treatment.
idioms:
 the glass is half empty
 the glass is half full
 people who live in glass houses shouldn't throw stones
phrasal verbs:
 glass sth in/over

tree /triː/
- a tall plant that has a wooden trunk and branches that grow from its upper part: 
    a plum/apple/chestnut tree
    an oak/elm/maple tree
    We sat under a tree for shade.
- another type of tall plant, without a wooden trunk: 
    palm trees

contact /ˈkɒn.tækt/
- communication with someone, especially by speaking or writing to them regularly: 
    "Have you been in contact with Andrew recently?" "Only by phone."
    I'm still in contact with her - we write a couple of times a year.
    There isn't enough contact between teachers and parents.
    I've been busy at home and have hardly had any contact with the outside world.
    I'd hate to lose contact with my college friends.
    She finally made contact with him in Italy.
    Air traffic control lost radio contact with the pilot of the plane ten minutes before the accident.
    The school needs a contact number (= phone number, especially for emergencies) for parents during school hours.
- the fact of two people or things touching each other: 
    Don't let that glue come into contact with your skin.
    Have you been in contact with (= touched or been very near) anyone with the disease?
    He hates physical contact of any kind - he doesn't even like to shake your hand.
- a person, especially someone in a high position, who can give you useful information or introductions that will help you at work or socially: 
    I don't really know how she got the job, but I think her mother has contacts.
    He gave me the name of one of his contacts in a design firm, who offered me a job.
    We're building up (= increasing the number of) our contacts in the business.
- the people whose names, telephone numbers, addresses, etc. you keep, for example stored on your mobile phone: 
    How do you add a new contact?
- the place on your mobile phone or computer where you store people's names, telephone numbers, addresses, etc.: 
    Click the icon to go to contacts. 
    I've added her number to my contacts.
- a part in a circuit that makes the circuit complete when it touches another part
- a small round curved piece of transparent plastic, worn on the surface of the eye to improve your sight
- a photograph produced by allowing light to pass through the film onto paper that is pressed tightly to it 
- to communicate with someone by calling or sending them a letter, email, etc.: 
    I tried to contact him at his office, but he wasn't in.
    You can contact me on (US also at) (= speak to me using the phone) 388 9146.
    Unless the money is paid, we will be contacting our legal department.

shop /ʃɒp/
- a place where you can buy goods or services: 
    a book/clothes/record/sweet shop
    a barber's/betting shop
    I need to go to the shops - I've got no food in the house.
- the act of shopping, especially of shopping for food and other things needed in the house: 
    I usually do the weekly shop on a Monday.
- to be available to buy: 
    His latest novel will be in the shops by Christmas.
- a place where a particular type of thing is made or repaired: 
    He runs a car repair shop.
- a business
- to buy things in shops: 
    I like to shop at Gap for clothes.
    If I'm just shopping for food, I tend to go to the local supermarket.
- to give the police information about a criminal: 
    His ex-wife shopped him to the police.
- to offer something for sale, especially to several different companies in the hope that one of them will buy it: 
    Your script gets shopped to literary agents and movie studios.
idioms:
 set up shop
phrasal verbs:
 shop around

reach /riːtʃ/
- to arrive at a place, especially after spending a long time or a lot of effort travelling: 
    We won't reach Miami until five or six o'clock.
    They finally reached the coast after five weeks sailing.
    News of his accident had only just reached us.
- to make a decision, agreement, etc. about something: 
    She reached the conclusion that there was no more she could do.
    We'll inform you when a decision has been reached.
    The jury took four days to reach a verdict.
- to get to a particular level, especially a high one: 
    The temperature is expected to reach 30°C today.
    He's just reached the grand old age of 95.
    I've reached the point where I'm not going to put up with her criticisms of me any more.
- to stretch out your arm in order to get or touch something: 
    She's grown so tall that she can reach the door handle now.
    He reached for the phone and knocked over a glass.
    The child reached down/out/over and picked up the kitten.
    He reached his hand out for the money.
    Can you reach me (down) that book?
- If an object reaches something, the top or bottom of it touches that thing: 
    The ladder won't quite reach the top of the wall.
    She was wearing a dress that reached (to) her ankles.
- to communicate with someone in a different place, especially by phone or email: 
    I've been trying to reach you on the phone all day.
- to understand and communicate with someone: 
    He's a strange child and his teachers find it difficult to reach him.
- Your reach is the distance within which you can stretch out your arm and touch something: 
    I like to keep a notebook and pencil within (arm's) reach.
    The top shelf is within/out of (his) reach.
    Make sure that you keep all dangerous substances out of the reach of the children.
- the distance that can be travelled, especially easily: 
    We live within (easy) reach of the station.
- the length of your arm when you stretch it out: 
    You've got quite a long reach - can you get that box down from the top shelf for me?
- an act of stretching out your arm: 
    He made a sudden reach for his gun.
- the limit within which someone can achieve something: 
    An expensive trip like that would be completely beyond/out of (my) reach (= I would not have enough money to pay for it).
    After years of saving, the car was at last within (her) reach (= she had enough money to pay for it).
- a part of a river or part of an area of land: 
    The expedition set out for the upper reaches of the Amazon.
    There was little snow on the lower reaches of the ski run.
    We know very little about the farthest/outermost reaches of the universe.
- the highest or lowest levels of an organization: 
    The news has shocked the upper reaches of the government.
idioms:
 reach for the stars
 a reach of the imagination
phrasal verbs:
 reach out to sb

cry /kraɪ/
- to produce tears as the result of a strong emotion, such as unhappiness or pain: 
    I could hear someone crying in the next room.
    "There, there, don't cry," she said.
    We all laughed until we cried.
    She cried bitter tears when she got the letter.
    He cried for joy when he heard that his son had been found alive and well.
- to cry for a long time until you start to sleep
- to call out loudly: 
    "Watch out!" she cried.
- a loud, high sound that expresses an emotion: 
    a cry of despair
- a shout made to attract people's attention: 
    They were wakened by cries of "Fire!" from the next room.
- the noise that a bird or animal makes: 
    an eagle's cry
- a period of crying: 
    "It's all right, have a good cry," he said, stroking her hair.
idioms:
 cry your eyes out
 cry foul
 cry wolf
 for crying out loud!
 it's no use crying over spilled milk
 a cry for help
 in full cry
phrasal verbs:
 cry off
 cry out
 cry out against sth
 cry out for sth

cake /keɪk/
- a sweet food made with a mixture of flour, eggs, fat, and sugar: 
    Would you like a piece of/a slice of/some cake?
    chocolate/sponge cake
    a birthday/Christmas cake
    cream cakes
    He made/baked a delicious cake.
- a small flat object made by pressing together a soft substance: 
    fish/potato cakes
    a cake of soap
- to cover something or someone thickly with a substance that then dries out: 
    The men were caked in layers of filth and grime.
    boots caked with mud
idioms:
 have your cake and eat it (too)
 the slice/share of the cake

partner /ˈpɑːt.nər/
- a person or organization you are closely involved with in some way: 
    He gave up his job as a police officer after his partner was killed.
    The two companies are partners in a contract to build the new factory.
- one of the owners of a company: 
    He's a partner in an insurance company/a law firm.
- the person you are married to or living with as if married to them, or the person you are having a sexual relationship with: 
    I've invited David and his partner over for dinner.
- one of a pair of dancers or one of a pair who are playing a sport or a game together, especially when the pair are playing as a team
- to act as someone's partner in a sport, game, dance, or activity, or to choose someone to do this: 
    He said that Teddy was the best player he had ever partnered.
    Paul partnered with Laura during a dance class and they fell in love.
    Each hearing-impaired student is partnered with a hearing helper. 
- to join with another person or organization in a business activity: 
    They partnered with a British venture capital firm and formed Armada Skis.
    Three companies partnered to purchase 193,000 acres of land.
phrasal verbs:
 partner up

bus /bʌs/
bus | plural buses or US also busses
- a large vehicle in which people are driven from one place to another: 
    You should take the bus/go by bus (= travel by bus) if you want to see the sights.
- a set of wires in a computer along which information can be sent to and from other parts of the computer
- to take people somewhere by bus: 
    Demonstrators were bussed in from all parts of the state to attend the protest rally.
- to take children by bus to school in another area every day
idioms:
 throw sb under the bus

computer /kəmˈpjuː.tər/
- an electronic machine that is used for storing, organizing, and finding words, numbers, and pictures, for doing calculations, and for controlling other machines: 
    a personal/home computer
    All our customer orders are handled by computer.
    We've put all our records on computer.
    computer software/hardware
    computer graphics
    a computer program

study /ˈstʌd.i/
- to learn about a subject, especially in an educational course or by reading books: 
    to study biology/chemistry
    Next term we will study plants and how they grow.
    She's been studying for her doctorate for three years already.
- to examine something very carefully: 
    I want time to study this contract thoroughly before signing it.
    Researchers have been studying how people under stress make decisions.
- the activity of examining a subject in detail in order to discover new information: 
    a five-year study of the relationship between wildlife and farming
    Some studies have suggested a link between certain types of artificial sweetener and cancer.
- a drawing that an artist makes in order to test ideas before starting a painting of the same subject
- the act of learning about a subject, usually at school or university: 
    the study of English literature
- studying or work involving studying: 
    Adam doesn't spend enough time on his studies.
- used in the names of some educational subjects and courses: 
    the department of business/media studies
- a room, especially in a house, used for quiet work such as reading or writing
idioms:
 a quick study
phrasal verbs:
 study under sb

star /stɑːr/
- a very large ball of burning gas in space that is usually seen from the earth as a point of light in the sky at night: 
    Stars twinkled above them as they lay on the hill.
- a very famous, successful, and important person, especially a performer such as a musician, actor, or sports player: 
    a rock/movie/football star
    Kids wanting to be stars come to Hollywood from all over America.
- a symbol with five or more points: 
    star-shaped
    How many stars (= symbols showing quality) does this restaurant have?
    The teacher gave Tom a gold star (= a paper symbol rewarding good work) for his drawing.
- used to show how good a restaurant, hotel, etc. is: 
    The cheaper two-star hotels are also within the range of the budget traveller.
- a symbol made of metal or cloth worn by particular officials to show their rank: 
    a sheriff's star
    a four-star general
- an asterisk (= a symbol *)
- any planet or other object in the sky thought of in astrology as influencing a person's luck: 
    She was born under a lucky/an unlucky star.
- → 
horoscope : 
    I always like to see what the stars say in the newspaper.
- If a film, play, etc. stars someone, or if someone stars in a film, play, etc., they are the main actor in it: 
    David Oyelowo starred in the movie "Selma".
    Zusak's novel "The Book Thief" was turned into a movie starring Geoffrey Rush.
- best or most important: 
    Natalie is, without a doubt, the star student in this year's ballet class.
    This afternoon the prosecution will call its star witness.
- a measurement of quality, usually in numbers from one to five with one being the lowest: 
    A three-star hotel is better than a two-star.
idioms:
 you're a star!

area /ˈeə.ri.ə/
- a particular part of a place, piece of land, or country: 
    All areas of the country will have some rain tonight.
    The area of New York to the south of Houston Street is known as Soho.
    Houses in the London area (= in and around London) are very expensive.
    He's an area manager (= is responsible for business in a particular area) for a computer company.
    This is a very poor area.
    Dogs are not allowed in the children's play area.
- a subject or activity, or a part of it: 
    Marketing is Paul's area.
    Software is not really my area of expertise.
- the size of a flat surface calculated by multiplying its length by its width: 
    the area of a rectangle
    Meadow Farm is 50 square kilometres in area.
- → 
penalty area 
idioms:
 in the area of

wind /wɪnd/
- a current of air moving approximately horizontally, especially one strong enough to be felt: 
    There isn't enough wind to fly a kite.
    The forecast warned of winds of up to 60 miles an hour today.
    There was a light wind blowing.
    Strong/High winds made the crossing very choppy.
    The sails flapped in the wind.
    There wasn't a breath of (= even a slight amount of) wind.
    A gust of wind suddenly caught her skirt.
    The wind is beginning to pick up (= get stronger).
    She ran like the wind (= very fast) to catch up.
- breath or the ability to breathe: 
    The blow to my stomach knocked the wind out of me.
- words that do not mean anything and false statements: 
    I rarely bother to listen to politicians' speeches - it's all just wind.
- gas in the bowels or in a baby's stomach, especially when this makes you feel uncomfortable or makes noises: 
    I like garlic but it gives me terrible wind.
- the group of woodwind instruments (= ones played by blowing into a hole near one end)and their players in an orchestra
- to make it difficult or temporarily impossible for someone to breathe, usually by hitting them in the stomach
- to rub or very gently hit a baby on the back to allow air to come up from the stomach
- to turn or cause something to turn: 
    She wound the handle but nothing happened.
    Once she was in the car, she wound the window down/up (= caused it to open/close by turning a handle).
    That noise you can hear is the tape winding back.
- If you wind (up) a clock or watch, you cause it to work by turning a key, handle, or other device.
- If a road, path, or river winds, it follows a route that turns repeatedly in different directions: 
    The river winds through the valley.
- to wrap something around an object several times or twist it repeatedly around itself: 
    She wound a scarf around her neck.
    He wound the string into a ball.
    He wound a small bandage round her finger.
idioms:
 get wind of sth
 have the wind at your back
 in the wind
 put/get the wind up sb
 take the wind out of sb's sails
phrasal verbs:
 wind (sth) down
 wind down
 wind sth up
 wind up
 wind (sth) up
 wind sb up

chicken /ˈtʃɪk.ɪn/
- a type of bird kept on a farm for its eggs or its meat, or the meat of this bird that is cooked and eaten: 
    A male chicken is called a cock and a female chicken is called a hen.
    We're having roast/fried chicken for dinner.
- a person who is not brave: 
    Jump, you chicken!
- not brave: 
    Why won't you jump? Are you chicken?
idioms:
 a chicken and egg situation
 play chicken

dry /draɪ/
dry | drier | driest
- used to describe something that has no water or other liquid in, on, or around it: 
    I hung his wet trousers on the radiator, but they're not dry yet.
    These plants grow well in dry soil/a dry climate.
    This cake's a bit dry - I think I left it in the oven for too long.
- used to describe weather or periods of time when no rain falls: 
    If it's dry tomorrow I'll cut the grass.
    It should be a nice, sunny, dry day.
- If a river or other area of water runs dry, the water gradually disappears from it: 
    By this time all the wells had run dry.
- Dry hair or skin does not have enough of the natural oils that make it soft and smooth: 
    a shampoo for dry hair
- Dry bread is plain, without butter, jam, etc.: 
    All I was offered was a piece of dry bread and an apple!
- If a book, talk, subject, etc. is dry, it is not interesting.
- without alcoholic drinks: 
    a dry wedding
    a dry bar
    a dry state (= a place that does not allow alcohol)
- If wine or other alcoholic drinks are dry, they do not taste sweet: 
    dry cider/martini/sherry/wine
    On the whole, I like dry wine better than sweet.
- Dry humour is very funny in a way that is clever and not obvious: 
    a dry sense of humour
    a dry wit
- a place where the conditions are not wet, especially when compared to somewhere where the conditions are wet: 
    You're soaked - come into the dry.
- to become dry, or to make something become dry: 
    Will this paint dry by tomorrow?
    Hang the clothes up to dry.
    The fruit is dried in the sun.
- to dry plates, knives, forks, etc. after they have been washed
idioms:
 as dry as a bone
 not a dry eye in the house
 dry your eyes
phrasal verbs:
 dry (sb/sth) off
 dry (sth) out
 dry out
 dry sth up
 dry up

hero /ˈhɪə.rəʊ/
hero | plural heroes
- a person who is admired for having done something very brave or having achieved something great: 
    a war hero
    He became a national hero for his part in the revolution.
    Graham says he'll take my parents to the airport at four o'clock in the morning - what a hero!
- the main male character in a book or film who is usually good: 
    the hero of her latest novel
- someone who you admire very much: 
    Humphrey Bogart's my hero - I've seen every one of his movies.
- a long sandwich filled with cold meat, cheese, salad, etc.

error /ˈer.ər/
- a mistake: 
    He admitted that he'd made an error.
    The letter contains a number of typing errors.
    Human error has been blamed for the air crash.
    With something as delicate as brain surgery, there is little margin for error (= you must not make mistakes).
- a wrong decision: 
    Not telling the staff before they read the news in the papers was an error of judgment.
- to understand that you were wrong to behave in a particular way and start to behave differently

are strong /ɑːr/
- we/you/they form of
be : 
    Are you hungry?
    They're (= they are) very late.

build /bɪld/
build | built | built
- to make something by putting bricks or other materials together: 
    They're building new houses by the river.
    The birds built their nest in the tree.
    These old houses are built (= made) of stone.
    Contractors have started building on waste land near the town.
- to create and develop something over a long period of time: 
    We want to build a better future for our children.
- the size and shape of a person's body: 
    She was of slim build with short, dark hair.
idioms:
 build bridges
 Rome wasn't built in a day
phrasal verbs:
 build around sth
 build sth in/into sth
 build on sth
 build (sb/sth) up
 build sth/sb up

sea /siː/
- the salty water that covers a large part of the surface of the earth, or a large area of salty water, smaller than an ocean, that is partly or completely surrounded by land: 
    the Mediterranean Sea
    We went swimming in the sea.
    The sea was calm/smooth/choppy/rough when we crossed the Channel.
    The refugees were at sea (= in a boat on the sea a long way from land) for 40 days before reaching land.
    When we moved to the US, we sent our things by sea (= in a ship).
    We spent a week by the sea (= on the coast) this year.
    Soon we had left the marina and were heading towards the open sea (= the part of the sea a long way from land).
- a large amount or number of something: 
    The teacher looked down and saw a sea of smiling faces.
- (of a ship) to leave a port and start a journey: 
    The boats will put (out) to sea on this evening's high tide.
- one of the large, flat areas on the moon that in the past were thought to be seas
idioms:
 at sea
 run away to sea

Saturday /ˈsæt.ə.deɪ/
- the day of the week after Friday and before Sunday: 
    He's leaving on Saturday.
    Most football matches are played on Saturdays.
    The party is next Saturday.
    We went out for a meal last Saturday.
    Joel was born on a Saturday.
    Saturday morning/afternoon/evening/night

add /æd/
- to put two or more numbers or amounts together to get a total: 
    If you add (= calculate the total of) three and four you get seven.
    It's $45 - $50 if you add in (= include) the cost of postage.
    Don't forget to add on your travelling expenses/add your expenses on.
- to put something with something else to increase the number or amount or to improve the whole: 
    Beat the butter and sugar together and slowly add the eggs.
    She's added a Picasso to her collection.
    Her colleagues' laughter only added to (= increased) her embarrassment.
- to say another thing: 
    She was sad, she said, but added (= said also) that she felt she had made the right decision.
    "Oh, and thank you for all your help!" he added as he was leaving.
- abbreviation for Attention Deficit Disorder: a condition in which someone, especially a child, is often in a state of activity or excitement and unable to direct their attention towards what they are doing
idioms:
 not add up
 to add insult to injury
phrasal verbs:
 add on sth
 add (sth) up
 add up to sth

birth /bɜːθ/
- the time when a baby or young animal comes out of its mother's body: 
    It was a difficult birth.
    He weighed eight pounds at birth.
    More men are present at the births of their children these days.
    The application form will ask for your country/place of birth (= where you were born).
- a child that is born: 
    The percentage of live births (= children who are born alive and continue to live) continues to increase.
    Registration of births and deaths became compulsory in 1871.
- the position of the family into which you are born, especially its social position: 
    He had received all the advantages of birth (= having been born into a family of a high social class) and an expensive education.
- born in a particular place or having parents of a particular nationality: 
    Oscar Wilde was Irish by birth.
- the beginning of something: 
    These asteroids were formed at the birth of the solar system.
idioms:
 give birth

bird /bɜːd/
- a creature with feathers and wings, usually able to fly: 
    caged/wild birds
    wading birds
    Most birds lay eggs in the spring.
    Penguins and ostriches are flightless birds (= they cannot fly).
    We watched a flock of birds fly over the field.
- a particular type of person: 
    He's a tough old bird.
- a young woman: 
    Is that Lee's new bird?
- a 
birdie : 
    The server must hit the bird so it lands within the court boundaries.
idioms:
 be (strictly) for the birds
 the bird has flown
 a bird in the hand (is worth two in the bush)
 the birds and the bees
 a bird's eye view
 birds of a feather
 birds of a feather flock together
 do bird
 flip/give sb the bird
 (as) free as a bird

grandmother /ˈɡræn.mʌð.ər/
- the mother of a person's father or mother: 
    Both my grandmothers were from Scotland.
    Sit down here, Grandmother, and rest.
idioms:
 teach your grandmother to suck eggs

heavy /ˈhev.i/
- weighing a lot, and needing effort to move or lift: 
    heavy equipment
    heavy work/lifting
    How heavy is that box? (= How much does it weigh?)
- (especially of something unpleasant) of very or especially great force, amount, or degree: 
    a heavy blow to the head
    heavy fighting
    heavy traffic
    heavy rain/snow
    a heavy smoker/drinker
    a heavy sleeper
- sea that is rough with large waves
- thick, strong, solid, or strongly made: 
    a heavy winter coat
    a heavy meal (= a large amount of solid food)
    a big man with heavy features
- Heavy soil is thick and difficult to dig or walk through.
- thick, solid-looking, and not delicate: 
    The sun disappeared behind heavy clouds.
- Heavy machines or vehicles that are very large and powerful: 
    heavy artillery/machinery
- used to describe something such as a situation that is dangerous or unpleasant: 
    Then the police arrived and things got really heavy.
- a large strong man employed to protect someone else or to frighten other people: 
    Frank always took a couple of heavies along with him when he went collecting his debts.
idioms:
 a heavy date
 have a heavy foot
 a heavy heart
 a heavy hitter
 be heavy on sb
 be/go heavy on sth
 heavy with sth
 make heavy weather of sth

west /west/
- the direction in which the sun goes down in the evening, opposite to the east, or the part of an area or country that is in this direction: 
    The points of the compass are north, south, east, and west.
    The sun rises in the east and sets in the west.
    Most of the region will be dry tomorrow, but the west will have some rain.
    The Black Country is/lies to the west of Birmingham.
- North America and western Europe: 
    There has been concern in/throughout the West about the effects of this measure.
    East-West relations
- In the US, the West is the part of the country west of the Mississippi river that only became developed in the late 1800s: 
    the Wild West
- to or in the west of the US: 
    Travis moved out west after college.
- in or forming the west part of something: 
    West Africa
    the west coast of the USA
    Ireland is west of Britain.
- a wind coming from the west
- towards the west: 
    Go due (= directly) west until you see a lake.
    The balcony faces west.
idioms:
 go west

lesson /ˈles.ən/
- a period of time in which a person is taught about a subject or how to do something: 
    How can we make science lessons more interesting?
    She has never had/taken any acting lessons.
    He gives French lessons.
- an experience that teaches you how to behave better in a similar situation in the future: 
    There is a lesson for all parents in this tragic accident.
    My parents made me pay back all the money and it was a lesson I never forgot.
    We can learn important lessons (= gain new understanding) from this disaster.

heat /hiːt/
- the quality of being hot or warm, or the temperature of something: 
    the heat of the sun/fire
    How do you manage to work in this heat without air conditioning?
    She always wore a coat, even in the heat of summer.
    Cook the meat on a high/low heat (= at a high/low temperature).
- the system that keeps a building warm: 
    Is the heat on?
- a less important race or competition in which it is decided who will compete in the final event
- An animal that is in heat is in a state of sexual excitement and ready to breed.
- to make something hot or warm, or to become hot or warm: 
    A large house like this must be expensive to heat.
    Shall I heat up some soup for lunch?
idioms:
 in the heat of the moment
 if you can't stand the heat, get out of the kitchen
 put the heat on sb
 take the heat off sb
 the heat is on

speed /spiːd/
- how fast something moves: 
    He was travelling at a speed of 90 mph.
    The car has a top speed of 155 miles per hour.
    You should lower/reduce your speed as you approach a junction.
    On a clear, straight road you can gather/pick up speed.
    He came off the road while driving his car round a bend at high/breakneck speed (= very fast).
    There are speed restrictions (= controls on how fast traffic is allowed to move) on this part of the road.
    an electric drill with two speeds (= rates at which it turns)
- very fast movement: 
    I get a real thrill from speed.
    He put on a sudden burst of speed.
    Both cars were travelling at speed (= very fast) when the accident happened.
- how fast something happens: 
    We were surprised at the speed of the response to our enquiry.
    It was the speed at which it all happened that shocked me.
    She got through her work with speed (= quickly) and efficiency.
- the rate at which light or sound travels: 
    The speed of light is 300 million metres per second.
    These planes travel at twice the speed of sound.
- a 
gear : 
    a bicycle with ten speeds
    a ten-speed bicycle
- the rate at which a photographic film absorbs or reacts to light: 
    What speed film do I need for taking photographs indoors?
- the length of time for which part of a camera is open to allow light to reach the film when a photograph is being taken: 
    a high/low shutter speed
- slang for
amphetamine  (= a drug that makes the mind or body more active): 
    She was on speed at the time.
- to (cause to) move, go, or happen fast: 
    The train sped along at over 120 miles per hour.
    The actress then sped away/off in a waiting car.
    We sped down the ski slopes.
    This year is speeding by/past.
    Ambulances sped the injured people (= moved them quickly) away from the scene.
    The best thing you can do to speed your recovery (= make it quicker) is to rest.
- to be driving faster than you are legally allowed to do: 
    He was caught speeding.
idioms:
 up to speed
phrasal verbs:
 speed (sth) up

milk /mɪlk/
- the white liquid produced by cows, goats, and sheep and used by humans as a drink or for making butter, cheese, etc.: 
    a glass/carton of milk
    cow's/goat's milk
    skimmed/pasteurized milk
    a milk bottle
- the white liquid produced by women and other female mammals as food for their young: 
    Breast/Mother's milk is the best nourishment for a baby.
- the white liquid produced by some plants and trees: 
    coconut milk
- to get milk from an animal: 
    Milking a cow by hand is a skilled process.
    Some goats seem to milk (= produce milk) better than others.
- to get as much money or information out of someone or something as possible, often in an unfair or dishonest way: 
    The newspapers milked the story dry.
    The directors milked the company of several million dollars.
idioms:
 the milk of human kindness

rain /reɪn/
- drops of water from clouds: 
    Rain is forecast for tomorrow.
    Come inside out of the rain.
    We had heavy/light rain all day.
    We got caught in pouring/torrential (= a lot of) rain without either raincoats or umbrellas.
    There will be showers of rain/rain showers (= short periods of rain) in the east.
    It looks like rain (= as if rain is going to fall).
- the season of the year in tropical countries when there is a lot of rain: 
    Villagers are now waiting for the rains to come so that the rice will grow.
    This is the third year in a row that the rains have failed.
- If it rains, water falls from the sky in small drops: 
    I think it's starting to rain.
    It's raining hard/heavily (= a large amount of rain is falling).
idioms:
 it never rains but it pours
 it's raining cats and dogs!
 rain on sb's parade
 come rain or shine
phrasal verbs:
 rain (sth) down
 rain sth off

sugar /ˈʃʊɡ.ər/
- a sweet substance especially from the plants sugar cane and sugar beet, used to make food and drinks sweet: 
    I don't take sugar in my coffee, thanks.
    Beat together the butter and brown sugar until light and creamy.
    Tea with milk and two sugars (= spoonfuls or lumps of sugar), please.
- any of several types of simple carbohydrate that dissolves in water: 
    Glucose and lactose are sugars.
- a friendly way of talking to someone that you know: 
    Hi, sugar, did you have a good day at school?
- polite word for
shit , used when something annoying happens: 
    Oh sugar, I've just spilled coffee all down my jacket!
- to put sugar in or on something: 
    He sugared the rims of the martini glasses.
    sugared donuts
idioms:
 sugar and spice

market /ˈmɑː.kɪt/
- the people who might want to buy something, or a part of the world where something is sold: 
    Are you sure there's a market for the product?
    We estimate the potential market for the new phones to be around one million people in this country alone.
    The domestic market is still depressed, but demand abroad is picking up.
    They've increased their share of the market by ten percent over the past year.
- the business or trade in a particular product, including financial products: 
    the coffee market
    the economic market
    the commodities market
    the stock market
    the job market
    the housing market
- interested in buying something: 
    Thanks for the offer, but I'm not in the market for another car right now.
- available for sale: 
    We put our house on the market as soon as house prices started to rise.
    This is one of the best televisions on the market.
    The pictures would sell for half a million on the open market (= if offered for sale without a fixed price).
- a place or event at which people meet in order to buy and sell things: 
    Fruit and vegetables are much fresher from/at the market than in the supermarket.
    She runs a stall at the farmer's market.
    The flower market is a big tourist attraction.
    a craft market
    Visit the area on market day for a glimpse of the real Paris.
- a shop that sells mainly food
- to make goods available to buyers in a planned way that encourages people to buy more of them, for example by advertising: 
    Their products are very cleverly marketed.

process /ˈprəʊ.ses/
- a series of actions that you take in order to achieve a result: 
    the peace process
    Increasing the number of women in top management jobs will be a slow process.
    This decision may delay the process of European unification.
    The party has begun the painful (= difficult) process of rethinking its policies and strategy.
    Going to court to obtain compensation is a long process.
    She arrived at the correct answer by a process of elimination (= by deciding against each answer that was unlikely to be correct until only one was left).
- a series of changes that happen naturally: 
    the digestive process
    the ageing process
    It's all part of the learning process.
- a method of producing goods in a factory by treating natural substances: 
    They have developed a new process for extracting aluminium from bauxite.
- to deal with documents in an official way: 
    Visa applications take 28 days to process.
- If a computer processes information, it performs a particular series of operations on the information, such as a set of calculations.
- to prepare, change, or treat food or natural substances as a part of an industrial operation: 
    a waste processing plant
- to think about a difficult or sad situation so that you can gradually accept it: 
    Returning soldiers need time to process what they have experienced in combat. 
- to make pictures from photographic film: 
    I need to get those films processed.
- to walk slowly: 
    We watched them process down the aisle.
idioms:
 be in the process of doing sth
 in the process

stone /stəʊn/
- the hard, solid substance found in the ground that is often used for building, or a piece of this: 
    a stone wall/floor
    a flight of stone steps
    a primitive stone axe
    They cut enormous blocks of stone out of the hillside.
    Some demonstrators were arrested for throwing stones at the police.
- a piece of hard material that can form in some organs in the body and cause severe pain: 
    kidney/gall stones
- a unit of weight equal to 14 pounds or 6.35 kilograms, used especially when talking about a person's weight: 
    I weigh ten and a half stone.
    She has put on/lost a stone (= is a stone heavier/lighter).
- a small piece of a hard, valuable substance, such as a diamond, that is found in the ground and used in jewellery: 
    a precious/semiprecious stone
    The large central diamond is surrounded by eight smaller stones.
- a large, hard seed inside some types of fruit: 
    Peaches, plums, and olives all contain stones.
- to throw stones at something or someone: 
    Rioters set up barricades and stoned police cars.
- to kill someone as a punishment by throwing stones at them
- to remove the stone from a fruit: 
    Could you stone the cherries for me?
idioms:
 drop/fall/sink like a stone
 not be set/carved in stone
 sink like a stone
 a stone's throw
 stone the crows!

serve /sɜːv/
- to provide food or drinks: 
    Do they serve meals in the bar?
    Breakfast is served in the restaurant between 7.00 and 11.00.
    We arrived at the hotel and were served with champagne and canapés.
    All recipes in this book, unless otherwise stated, will serve (= be enough for) four to five people.
    Serve the pie warm with ice cream or whipped cream.
- to work for; to do your duty to: 
    He served in the army for 22 years.
    She has served on the committee for the last 15 years.
    He served under Ronald Reagan as Secretary of State.
- to help achieve something or to be useful as something: 
    An official investigation would not serve any useful purpose.
    The judge said that the fine would serve as a warning to other drivers.
    In the absence of anything better the settee could serve as a bed for a couple of nights.
    Nothing serves to explain the violent fighting we have seen recently.
    My umbrella will serve for a weapon.
- If something serves you, it is good or helpful for you: 
    If your anger doesn't serve you, let it go.
    You're growing and changing, so your "stick with it" motto may not be serving you well. 
- to provide with something that is needed: 
    The report says the police are out of touch with the communities that they serve.
- in a shop, restaurant, or hotel, to deal with a customer by taking their order, showing or selling them goods, etc.: 
    Are you being served, madam?
    Have you been served, ma'am?
    That's the restaurant where they refused to serve John because he was so rude.
- to spend a period of time doing something: 
    He served four years in prison for robbery.
    After he'd served his apprenticeship he set up his own business.
- to spend time in prison: 
    He's serving time for drug offences.
- in sports such as tennis, to hit the ball to the other player as a way of starting the game: 
    Whose turn is it to serve?
    That's the third ace you've served this game.
- to give a legal document to someone, demanding that they go to a law court or that they obey an order: 
    Less than two weeks ago Gough finally served a writ on Slater, claiming damages for alleged loss of royalties.
    Each person served with a summons will be given six weeks before they have to appear in the Magistrates' Court.
- in sports such as tennis, the act of hitting the ball to the other player to start play: 
    It's your serve.
    Murray broke Federer's serve (= he won a game in which Federer hit the ball first).
idioms:
 if my memory serves me right
 serve sb right
phrasal verbs:
 serve out
 serve sth out
 serve sth up
 serve (sth) up

river /ˈrɪv.ər/
- a natural wide flow of fresh water across the land into the sea, a lake, or another river: 
    We sailed slowly down the river.
- used before or after the name of a river: 
    the River Thames/Seine/Nile
    the Hudson/Mississippi/Yangzte River
- in the opposite direction to the flow of water in the river: 
    We sailed up river.
- in the same direction as the flow of water in the river
idioms:
 rivers of sth

super /ˈsuː.pər/
- excellent: 
    The Natural History Museum is a super place for kids.
    "Did you enjoy the film?" "Yes, I thought it was super."
- especially; very: 
    They were super helpful when I was having problems.
- informal for
superintendent 
- informal for 
superannuation 
- the highest quality fuel that can be used in cars
- larger, more effective, more powerful, or more successful than usual; very or more than usually: 
    a supercomputer
    a supermodel
    the super-rich
    superfine silk thread
- over; above: 
    a superstructure

monkey /ˈmʌŋ.ki/
- an animal that lives in hot countries, has a long tail, and climbs trees. Monkeys are primates (= the group of animals that are most like humans) .
- a child who behaves badly: 
    They ate all the cakes, the monkeys.
    Hey, put that down, you little monkey!
- £500
idioms:
 I'll be a monkey's uncle!
 make a monkey out of sb
 not give a monkey's

pig /pɪɡ/
- a large pink, brown, or black farm animal with short legs and a curved tail, kept for its meat: 
    The meat produced from a pig is called pork, bacon, or ham.
    a pig farm
- a person who is unpleasant and difficult to deal with: 
    He was an absolute pig to her.
    He's a real pig of a man.
- to be very difficult or unpleasant to do, play, etc.: 
    It's a beautiful piece of music but it's a pig to play.
- a person who eats too much: 
    You greedy pig! You're not having another biscuit!
- a police officer
idioms:
 make a pig of yourself
 make a pig's ear of sth
 a pig in a poke
 pigs might fly

chat /tʃæt/
chat | -tt-
- to talk to someone in a friendly informal way: 
    She spends hours on the phone chatting to her friends.
    We were just chatting about what we did last weekend.
    Whenever I walk in, I always find the two of them chatting away (= talking eagerly).
- to take part in a discussion that involves sending messages over the internet, by smartphone, etc.: 
    Use the app to chat and send photos free from anywhere in the world.
- a friendly, informal conversation: 
    Why don't you give me a call and we'll have a chat?
    I had a chat with my boss today about a possible salary increase.
    It was the usual idle chat (= conversation about unimportant things).
- a discussion that involves sending messages over the internet, by phone, using a messaging service, etc.: 
    How do I start a group chat?
phrasal verbs:
 chat sb up

signal /ˈsɪɡ.nəl/
- an action, movement, or sound that gives information, a message, a warning, or an order: 
    When she gave (them) the signal, they all cheered.
    The fireworks were a signal that the festival had started.
    The police officer gave us the signal to stop.
    The signal for a race to start is often the firing of a gun.
- a 
turn signal 
- a series of electrical or radio waves that are sent to a radio or television in order to produce a sound, picture, or message
- something that shows that something else exists or is likely to happen: 
    The loss is a clear signal of his deteriorating confidence.
    The changing colour of the leaves on the trees is a signal that it will soon be autumn.
- equipment, especially on the side of a railway or road, often with lights, that tells drivers to stop, continue, or go more slowly: 
    a railway signal
    a traffic signal
    a road signal
- to make a movement, sound, flash, etc. that gives information or tells people what to do: 
    Flashing lights on a parked car usually signal a warning (to other drivers).
    He signalled left, and turned the lorry slowly.
    He was signalling (= giving a signal) with a red flag.
    She signalled for help.
    She signalled to the cars behind her that they were going the wrong way.
    The children's mother signalled them to be quiet.
    The children's mother signalled to/for them to be quiet.
- to show that you intend or are ready to do something: 
    The union has signalled that the workers will strike.
    The union has signalled the workers' intention to strike.
    The death of Chairman Mao signalled (= marked) the end of an era in Chinese history.
- noticeable and unusual: 
    a signal success/failure

cup /kʌp/
- a small, round container, often with a handle, used for drinking tea, coffee, etc.: 
    a cup and saucer
    a plastic/paper cup
    a coffee cup/teacup
- a container that holds slightly under a quarter of a litre of liquid, used for measuring when cooking
- a specially designed cup, usually with two handles and often made of silver, given as a prize in a sports competition or in a game or match in which the winner receives such a cup: 
    Sheila won this cup in the school squash championship.
    The Davis Cup is an important championship.
- a bowl-shaped container: 
    an egg cup
- one of the two parts that support the breasts in a woman's bra (= piece of underwear): 
    "What size bra do you wear?" "I wear a C cup."
- a curved piece of hard plastic that is worn by men while playing sports to protect their outer sex organs
- a mixture of several types of drink, often including one that is alcoholic, often drunk at parties and usually served from a bowl: 
    a strawberry/cider cup
- to hold your hands in the shape of a cup, often around something: 
    She gently cupped the small injured bird in her hands.
- abbreviation for carcinoma of uncertain primary origin: the situation when cancer is found in one or more places in the body but the place where it started is unknown
idioms:
 not be sb's cup of tea

bee /biː/
- a yellow and black flying insect that makes honey and can sting you: 
    A swarm of bees flew into the garden.
    My arm swelled up where I was stung by a bee.
- a group of people who come together in order to take part in a particular activity: 
    a sewing bee
    a spelling bee
idioms:
 be (as) busy as a bee
 be the bee's knees
 have a bee in your bonnet

a weak /ə/
- used before a noun to refer to a single thing or person that has not been mentioned before, especially when you are not referring to a particular thing or person: 
    I've bought a car.
    She's got a boyfriend.
    There was a sudden loud noise.
    What a shame that you couldn't go to the party.
    I heard a child crying.
    Is he a friend of yours (= one of your friends)?
- used to say what type of thing or person something or someone is: 
    She wants to be a doctor when she grows up.
    This is a very mild cheese.
    Experts think the painting may be a Picasso (= by Picasso).
- used to mean any or every thing or person of the type you are referring to: 
    Can you ride a bike?
    A cheetah can run faster than a lion.
    A teacher needs to have a lot of patience.
- used before some uncountable nouns when you want to limit their meaning in some way, such as when describing them more completely or referring to one example of them: 
    I only have a limited knowledge of Spanish.
    He has a great love of music.
    There was a fierceness in her voice.
- used before some nouns of action when referring to one example of the action: 
    Take a look at this, Jez.
    I'm just going to have a snack.
    There was a knocking at the door.
- used when referring to a unit or container of something, especially something you eat or drink: 
    I'd love a coffee.
    All I had for lunch was a yogurt.
- used before the first but not the second of two nouns that are referred to as one unit: 
    a cup and saucer
    a knife and fork
- used before some words that express a number or amount: 
    a few days
    a bit of wool
    a lot of money
- used in front of a person's name when referring to someone who you do not know: 
    There's a Ms Evans to see you.
- used in front of someone's family name when they are a member of that family: 
    Is that a Wilson over there?
- used before the name of a day or month to refer to one example of it: 
    My birthday is on a Friday this year.
    It's been a very wet June.
- one: 
    a hundred
    a thousand
    a dozen
    There were three men and a woman.
- used between a fraction and a unit of measurement: 
    half a mile
    a quarter of a kilo
    three quarters of an hour
    six tenths of a second
- used when saying how often something happens in a certain period: 
    Take one tablet three times a day.
    I swim once a week.
- used when saying how much someone earns or how much something costs in a certain period: 
    She earns $100,000 a year.
    My plumber charges £30 an hour.
    I pay £25 a week for my parking permit.
- written abbreviation for
amp 

above /əˈbʌv/
- in or to a higher position than something else: 
    There's a mirror above the sink.
    He waved the letter excitedly above his head.
    She's rented a room above a shop.
    Her name comes above mine on the list.
    The helicopter was hovering above the building.
    It's on the shelf just above your head.
    A crack had started to appear just above the light on the ceiling.
- more than an amount or level: 
    It says on the box it's for children aged three and above.
    Rates of pay are above average.
    Temperatures rarely rise above zero in winter.
    She values her job above her family.
    They value their freedom above (and beyond) all else.
- most importantly: 
    Above all, I'd like to thank my family.
    Above all, I'd say I value kindness.
- in a more important or advanced position than someone else: 
    Sally's a grade above me.
- too good or important for something: 
    No one is above suspicion in this matter.
    He's not above lying (= he sometimes lies) to protect himself.
- When used in a piece of writing, "above" means higher on the page, or on a previous page: 
    Please send the articles to the address given above.
    The letter was sent to the above address.
- all the people or things listed earlier: 
    All of the above should be invited.
    Once we've finished all of the above we can start on the next project.
idioms:
 above and beyond sth
 go above and beyond (sth)

addition /əˈdɪʃ.ən/
- the process of adding numbers or amounts together: 
    Twice a week the children are tested in basic mathematical skills such as addition (= calculating the total of different numbers put together) and subtraction.
- as well (as): 
    In addition to his apartment in Manhattan, he has a villa in Italy and a castle in Scotland.
- something that has been added to something else: 
    A secretary would be a welcome/useful addition to our staff.
    I hear you're expecting a small addition to the family (= you are going to have a baby)!
- the act of adding a substance or thing to something else: 
    Most working environments are improved by the addition of (= by adding) a few plants and pictures.
- a new part added to a house or other building: 
    We're building an addition to our house.

among /əˈmʌŋ/
- in the middle of or surrounded by other things: 
    I saw a few familiar faces among the crowd.
    Rescue teams searched among the wreckage for survivors.
- happening or being included as part of a group of people or things: 
    a decision that has caused a lot of anger among women
    Relax, you're amongst friends.
    Talk about it among yourselves (= talk to each other about it without me) for a while.
    She has worked as an estate agent among other things (= as well as other things).
- to each one in a group of three or more people or things: 
    He divided the country among his sons.
    The cost should be shared equally among the three of you.

amount /əˈmaʊnt/
- a collection or mass, especially of something that cannot be counted: 
    They didn't deliver the right amount of sand.
    Small amounts of land were used for keeping animals.
    He paid regular amounts of money to a charity.
    I didn't expect the bill to come to this amount (= of money).
    The new tax caused a huge amount of public anger.
    I had a certain amount of (= some) difficulty finding the house.
    You wouldn't believe the amount of trouble (= what a lot of trouble) I've had with this car.
idioms:
 any amount of

angle /ˈæŋ.ɡəl/
- the space between two lines or surfaces at the point at which they touch each other, measured in degrees: 
    The interior angles of a square are right angles or angles of 90 degrees.
    The boat settled into the mud at a 35° angle/at an angle of 35°.
- not horizontal or vertical, but sloping in one direction: 
    The picture was hanging at an angle.
    He wore his hat at a jaunty angle.
- the corner of a building, table, or anything with straight sides
- a position from which something is looked at: 
    The tower is visible from every angle/all angles.
    I realized I was looking at it from the wrong angle.
- a way of considering, judging, or dealing with something: 
    Try looking at the problem from another angle/from my angle.
    The press was looking for a new/fresh angle on the situation.
- to aim, turn, or position something in a direction that is not horizontal or vertical: 
    The stage had been steeply angled (= was sloping very noticeably).
- to direct information at a particular group of people: 
    The magazine is angled at the 20 to 35-year-old women's market.
phrasal verbs:
 angle for sth

animal /ˈæn.ɪ.məl/
- something that lives and moves but is not a human, bird, fish, or insect: 
    wild/domestic animals
    Both children are real animal lovers.
    Surveys show that animal welfare has recently become a major concern for many schoolchildren.
- anything that lives and moves, including people, birds, etc.: 
    Humans, insects, reptiles, birds, and mammals are all animals.
- an unpleasant, cruel person or someone who behaves badly: 
    He's a real animal when he's had too much to drink.
- used to describe what type of person or thing someone or something is: 
    At heart she is a political animal.
    She is that rare animal (= she is very unusual), a brilliant scientist who can communicate her ideas to ordinary people.
    Feminism in France and England are rather different animals (= are different).
- made or obtained from an animal or animals: 
    animal products
    animal fat/skins
- relating to, or taking the form of, an animal or animals rather than a plant or human being: 
    The island was devoid of all animal life (= there were no animals on the island).
- relating to physical desires or needs, and not spiritual or mental ones: 
    As an actor, he has a sort of animal magnetism.
    She knew that Dave wasn't the right man for her but she couldn't deny the animal attraction between them.

appear /əˈpɪər/
- to start to be seen or to be present: 
    He suddenly appeared in the doorway.
    We'd been in the house a month when dark stains started appearing on the wall.
    His name appears in the film credits for lighting.
- If you appear in court, you are there officially because you are involved in a trial: 
    Both women will be appearing before magistrates later this week.
- to seem: 
    You've got to appear (to be) calm in an interview even if you're terrified underneath.
    To people who don't know him he probably appears (to be) rather unfriendly.
    Things aren't always what they appear to be.
    She appears to actually like the man, which I find incredible.
    There appears to be some mistake.
    It appears (that) she left the party alone.
    It appears to me (that) (= I think that) we need to make some changes.
    It would appear (that) (= it seems that) nobody on board the aircraft actually had a licence to fly it.
    It appears as if/as though I was wrong.
    Everything was not as it appeared - secret deals had been done.
    I know how it must appear, but it's not really as bad as it looks.
    "Has he left?" "It appears not/so."
    "I think we're late." "So it appears."
- to perform publicly in a play, film, or show: 
    She will be appearing in the latest adaptation of "Bleak House".
    She appears briefly in the new Bond film.
- to start to exist or become available: 
    I've noticed that smaller cars are starting to appear (= be produced or sold) again.
    The film, currently showing in the States, will be appearing on our screens (= we will be able to see it) later this year.
- to arrive: 
    If she hasn't appeared by ten o'clock I'm going without her.
phrasal verbs:
 appear for sb

apple /ˈæp.əl/
- a round fruit with firm, white flesh and a green, red, or yellow skin: 
    to peel an apple
    apple pie/sauce
    an apple tree
idioms:
 an apple a day keeps the doctor away
 to compare apples and/with oranges
 the apple of sb's eye
 the apple doesn't fall far from the tree

art /ɑːt/
- the making of objects, images, music, etc. that are beautiful or that express feelings: 
    Can television and pop music really be considered art?
    I enjoyed the ballet, but it wasn't really great art.
- the activity of painting, drawing, and making sculpture: 
    Art and English were my best subjects at school.
    an art teacher
- paintings, drawings, and sculptures: 
    The gallery has an excellent collection of modern art.
    an exhibition of Native American art
    Peggy Guggenheim was one of the 20th century's great art collectors.
    The Frick is an art gallery in New York.
- an activity through which people express particular ideas: 
    Drama is an art that is traditionally performed in a theatre.
    Do you regard film as entertainment or as an art?
    She is doing a course in the performing arts.
- the making or showing or performance of painting, acting, dancing, and music: 
    More government money is needed for the arts.
    public interest in the arts
- subjects, such as history, languages, and literature, that are not scientific subjects: 
    At school I was quite good at arts, but hopeless at science.
    Children should be given a well-balanced education in both the arts and the sciences.
    arts graduates/degrees
- a skill or special ability: 
    the art of conversation
    Getting him to go out is quite an art (= needs special skill).
- in the past, the second person singular of the present tense of "be": 
    thou art (= you are)

as strong /æz/
- used in comparisons to refer to the degree of something: 
    She'll soon be as tall as her mother.
    I can't run as fast as you.
    skin as soft as a baby's
    It's not as good as it used to be.
- used to describe the purpose or quality of someone or something: 
    She works as a waitress.
    It could be used as evidence against him.
    The news came as quite a shock to us.
    I meant it as a joke.
- because: 
    As it was getting late, I decided to book into a hotel.
    You can go first as you're the oldest.
- during the time that: 
    I saw him as I was coming into the building.
    He gets more attractive as he gets older.
- in the same way: 
    He got divorced, (just) as his parents had done years before.
    This year, as in previous years, tickets sold very quickly.
    As with his earlier movies, the special effects in his latest film are brilliant.
    As is often the case with children, Amy was completely better by the time the doctor arrived.
    As I was just saying, I think the proposal needs further consideration.
    Knowing him as I do, I can't believe he would do such a thing.
- although: 
    Angry as he was, he couldn't help smiling.
idioms:
 as and when
 as for sb/sth
 as if!
 as if/though
 as is
 as it is
 as it were
 as of/from
 as to
 as to/for
 as you wish/like

at weak /ət/
- used to show an exact position or particular place: 
    We'll meet you at the entrance.
    That bit at the beginning of the film was brilliant.
    She's sitting at the table in the corner.
    She was standing at the top of the stairs.
    The dog came and lay down at (= next to) my feet.
    There's someone at the door (= someone is outside and wants to come in).
    We spent the afternoon at a football match.
    I enjoyed my three years at university.
    I called her but she was at lunch (= away, eating her lunch).
- used to show an exact or a particular time: 
    There's a meeting at 2.30 this afternoon.
    Are you free at lunchtime?
    In theory, women can still have children at the age of 50.
    The bells ring at regular intervals through the day.
    At no time/point did the company do anything illegal.
    I'm busy at the moment (= now) - can you call back later?
    It's a shame I wasn't here to meet you - I was overseas at the time (= then).
- in the direction of: 
    She smiled at me.
    They waved at us as we drove by.
    She aimed at the target.
    "Look at me! Look at me!" called the little girl.
    He's always shouting at the children.
- used to show the cause of something, especially a feeling: 
    We were surprised at the news.
    I was quite excited at the prospect.
    Why does no one ever laugh at my jokes?
- used to show the activity in which someone's ability is being judged: 
    I was never very good at sports.
    He's very good at getting on with people.
    She's hopeless at organizing things.
- the @ symbol that joins the name of a person or a department in an organization to a domain name to make an email address: 
    "What's your email address?" "It's dictionary at cambridge dot org."
- used to show a price, temperature, rate, speed, etc.: 
    I'm not going to buy those shoes at $150!
    Inflation is running at 5 percent.
    He was driving at 120 mph when the police spotted him.
- used in financial records to show the price, rate, etc. of a particular thing or of each of a number of things on a list: 
    50 units @ £4.75
- used to show a state, condition, or continuous activity: 
    a country at war
    children at play

bank /bæŋk/
- an organization where people and businesses can invest or borrow money, change it to foreign money, etc., or a building where these services are offered: 
    The big banks have been accused of exploiting small firms.
    I need to go to the bank at lunchtime.
    I had to take out a bank loan to start my own business.
- In gambling, the bank is money that belongs to the owner and can be won by the players.
- sloping raised land, especially along the sides of a river: 
    By the time we reached the opposite bank, the boat was sinking fast.
    These flowers generally grow on river banks and near streams.
- a pile or mass of earth, clouds, etc.: 
    A dark bank of cloud loomed on the horizon.
- a row of similar things, especially machines or parts of machines: 
    a bank of switches
- A bank of something, such as blood or human organs for medical use, is a place that stores these things for later use: 
    a blood bank
    a sperm bank
- to keep your money in a particular bank, or to put money into a bank: 
    I used to bank with Lloyd's.
- to win or earn a particular amount of money: 
    She banked £500 in tips that day!
- (of an aircraft) to fly with one wing higher than the other when turning: 
    We felt the plane bank steeply as it changed direction.
- to collect in or form into a mass, or to make something do this: 
    The snow had banked up in the corner of the garden.
    We banked up the fire (= put more coal on it) to keep it burning all night.
idioms:
 Bank of Mum and Dad
phrasal verbs:
 bank on sb/sth

base /beɪs/
- the bottom part of an object, on which it rests, or the lowest part of something: 
    a crystal glass with a heavy base
    At the base of the cliff was a rocky beach.
    This cream provides an excellent base for your make-up (= a good bottom layer on which other layers can be put).
- the main place where a person lives and works, or a place that a company does business from: 
    I spend a lot of time in Brussels, but London is still my base.
    Nice is an excellent base for (= place to stay when) exploring the French Riviera.
- a place where there are military buildings and weapons and where members of the armed forces live: 
    an old naval/military base
- one of the four positions on a square that a player must reach to score a point in the game of baseball
- the activity or people from which someone or something gets most of their support, money, etc.: 
    A strong economy depends on a healthy manufacturing base.
    We're aiming to expand our customer base.
- the main part of something: 
    a cocktail with a whisky base
- the number on which a counting system is built: 
    A binary number is a number written in base 2, using the two numbers 0 and 1.
- a chemical that dissolves in water and combines with an acid to create a salt
- not showing any honour and having no morals: 
    I accused him of having base motives.
- to have a particular town or area, etc. as the main place that you live and work in, or where you do business from: 
    Where is your firm based?
    He was based in (= he lived in or was at a military establishment in) Birmingham during the war.
phrasal verbs:
 base sth on sth

bear /beər/
bear | bore | borne or US also born
- to accept, tolerate, or endure something, especially something unpleasant: 
    The strain must have been enormous but she bore it well.
    Tell me now! I can't bear the suspense!
    It's your decision - you have to bear the responsibility if things go wrong.
    He couldn't bear to see the dog in pain.
    I can't bear being bored.
- to be too unpleasant or frightening to think about: 
    "What if she'd been driving faster?" "It doesn't bear thinking about."
- to have or continue to have something: 
    Their baby bears a strong resemblance to its grandfather.
    The stone plaque bearing his name was smashed to pieces.
    On display were boxing gloves that bore Rocky Marciano's signature.
    I don't bear them any ill feeling (= I do not continue to be angry with or dislike them).
    Thank you for your advice - I'll bear it in mind (= I will remember and consider it).
- to hold or support something: 
    The chair, too fragile to bear her weight, collapsed.
- to give birth to young, or (of a tree or plant) to give or produce fruit or flowers: 
    She had borne six children by the time she was 30.
    When his wife bore him a child he could not hide his delight.
    Most animals bear their young in the spring.
    The pear tree they planted has never borne fruit.
- to carry and move something to a place: 
    At Christmas the family all arrive at the house bearing gifts.
    Countless waiters bore trays of drinks into the room.
    The sound of the ice cream van was borne into the office on the wind.
- to change direction slightly so that you are going in a particular direction: 
    The path followed the coastline for several miles, then bore inland.
    After you go past the church keep bearing left/right.
- to say you know from your own experience that something happened or is true: 
    She bore witness to his patience and diligence.
- If something bears testimony to a fact, it proves that it is true: 
    The iron bridge bears testimony to the skills developed in that era.
- to lie
- a large, strong wild mammal with a thick fur coat that lives especially in colder parts of Europe, Asia, and North America: 
    a brown/black bear
    a bear cub (= young bear)
- an older gay man who is large and has a lot of hair on his body 
- a person who sells shares when prices are expected to fall, in order to make a profit by buying them back again at a lower price
idioms:
 bear fruit
 bear the scars
 be like a bear with a sore head
 does a bear/do bears shit in the woods?
phrasal verbs:
 bear away
 bear sb/sth away
 bear down
 bear down on sb/sth
 bear in on/upon
 bear on sth
 bear sb/sth out
 bear up
 bear with sb

belong /bɪˈlɒŋ/
- to be in the right place or a suitable place: 
    This table belongs in the sitting room.
    Where do these spoons belong?
    These papers belong with the others.
- to feel happy or comfortable in a situation: 
    After three years in Cambridge, I finally feel as if I belong here.
phrasal verbs:
 belong to sb
 belong to sth

block /blɒk/
- the distance along a street from where one road crosses it to the place where the next road crosses it, or one part of a street like this, especially in a town or city: 
    The museum is just six blocks away.
    My friend and I live on the same block.
- a square group of buildings or houses with roads on each side: 
    I took a walk around the block.
- on the next street that crosses this street: 
    He lives just around the block.
- a solid, straight-sided piece of hard material: 
    a block of wood/ice
- (in the past) a large piece of wood on which criminals had their head cut off: 
    Anne Boleyn went to (= was killed on) the block.
- a large, usually tall building divided into separate parts for use as offices or homes by several different organizations or people: 
    an office block
    a tower block
    a block of flats
- a group of things bought, dealt with, or considered together: 
    a block of tickets/seats/shares
    Corporate hospitality firms make block bookings (= buy large numbers of seats) at big sporting events.
- something that blocks a tube or opening: 
    A block in (= an object blocking) the pipe was preventing the water from coming through.
- to prevent movement through something: 
    A fallen tree is blocking the road.
    As she left the court, an angry crowd tried to block her way.
- to be between someone and the thing they are looking at, so that they cannot see: 
    My view was blocked by a tall man in front of me.
- to stop something from happening or succeeding: 
    She was very talented and I felt her parents were blocking her progress.
    A group of politicians blocked the proposal.
- If a bank blocks someone's account, they make it impossible for that person to remove money from it: 
    Federal agents blocked the accounts of five money-transfer operations in the city.
- to stop emails, text messages, phone calls, etc. from being received: 
    The carriers said they have rigorous filters to block spam, and they allow customers to block messages from certain numbers.
    Prosecutors say Wilson allegedly made the calls from a blocked phone number.
- on social media, to stop a particular person from being able to communicate with you or read what you have written: 
    My mom found out that I blocked her on Twitter and gave me another serious talk.
    In the Block Users section you should see a list of people you've blocked.
    Someone you’ve blocked won’t be able to add you to a group.
idioms:
 go on the block
 have/put your head on the block
phrasal verbs:
 block sth/sb in
 block sth off
 block sth out
 block sth up

bone /bəʊn/
- any of the hard parts inside a human or animal that make up its frame: 
    The child was so thin that you could see her bones.
    human/animal bones
- the bone in meat or fish: 
    There's still a lot of meat left on the bone - shall I slice some off for you?
    I don't like fish because I hate the bones.
- to have sex with someone
- to take the bones out of something: 
    The chef bones the fish before grilling it.
idioms:
 bone dry
 bone idle
 a bone of contention
 have a bone to pick with sb
 make no bones about sth
 to the bone
phrasal verbs:
 bone up

brown /braʊn/
- the colour of chocolate or soil: 
    dark/light brown
- having the colour of chocolate or soil: 
    The parcel was wrapped in plain brown paper.
    He's very handsome, with regular features and deep brown eyes.
- to make food brown by cooking it: 
    Lightly brown the onion before adding the tomatoes.
    Allow the meat to brown before adding the vegetables.
idioms:
 a brown study

cannot /ˈkæn.ɒt/
- the negative form of the verb "can": 
    I cannot predict what will happen next year.
- used to say that something will certainly happen: 
    If we persevere, we cannot but succeed.

capital /ˈkæp.ɪ.təl/
- a city that is the centre of government of a country or smaller political area: 
    Australia's capital city is Canberra.
- the most important place for a particular business or activity: 
    London used to be the financial capital of the world.
- a letter of the alphabet in the form and larger size that is used at the beginning of sentences and names: 
    Please print your name in capitals.
    A proper noun should start with a capital.
- money and possessions, especially a large amount of money used for producing more wealth or for starting a new business: 
    She leaves her capital untouched in the bank and lives off the interest.
    We put $20,000 capital into the business, but we're unlikely to see any return for a few years.
- the top part of a column
- (of a letter of the alphabet) in the form and larger size that is used at the beginning of sentences and names: 
    Do you write "calvinist" with a capital "C" or not?
- a crime that can be punished by death: 
    In some countries, importing drugs is a capital offence.
- very good or excellent: 
    That's a capital idea!
idioms:
 make capital out of sth
 with a capital A, B, etc.

carry /ˈkær.i/
- to hold something or someone with your hands, arms, or on your back and transport it, him, or her from one place to another: 
    Would you like me to carry your bag for you?
    She carried her tired child upstairs to bed.
    These books are too heavy for me to carry.
    We only had a small suitcase, so we were able to carry it onto the plane.
    Robson injured his leg in the second half of the match and had to be carried off.
    Thieves broke the shop window and carried off (= removed) jewellery worth thousands of pounds.
- to move someone or something from one place to another: 
    The bus that was involved in the accident was carrying children to school.
    The Brooklyn Bridge carries traffic across the East River from Brooklyn to Manhattan.
    Police think that the body was carried down the river (= was transported by the flow of the river).
    Underground cables carry electricity to all parts of the city.
    Rubbish left on the beach during the day is carried away (= removed) at night by the tide.
- to have something with you all the time: 
    Police officers in Britain do not usually carry guns.
    He will carry the memory of the accident with him (= will remember the accident) for ever.
- to have something as a part, quality, or result: 
    All cigarette packets carry a government health warning.
    Our cars carry a twelve-month guarantee.
    His speech carried so much conviction that I had to agree with him.
    In some countries, murder carries the death penalty.
    I'm afraid my opinion doesn't carry any weight with (= influence) my boss.
    The salesclerk said they didn't carry (= have a supply of) sportswear.
- to take something from one person or thing and give it to another person or thing: 
    Malaria is a disease carried by mosquitoes.
- to support the weight of something without moving or breaking: 
    The weight of the cathedral roof is carried by two rows of pillars.
- to support, keep in operation, or make a success: 
    We can no longer afford to carry people who don't work as hard as they should.
    Luckily they had a very strong actor in the main part and he managed to carry the whole play (= make a success of it through his own performance).
- to win the support, agreement, or sympathy of a group of people: 
    The bosses' plans to reorganize the company won't succeed unless they can carry the workforce with them.
- to give approval, especially by voting: 
    The motion/proposal/resolution/bill was carried by 210 votes to 160.
- (of a newspaper or radio or television broadcast) to contain particular information: 
    This morning's newspapers all carry the same story on their front page.
- to be able to reach or travel a particular distance: 
    The sound of the explosion carried for miles.
    The ball carried high into the air and landed the other side of the fence.
- to develop or continue something: 
    Lenin carried Marx's ideas a stage further by putting them into practice.
    If we carry this argument to its logical conclusion, we realize that further investment is not a good idea.
    She carries tidiness to extremes/to its limits (= she is too tidy).
    We must end here, but we can carry today's discussion forward at our next meeting.
    He always carries his jokes too far (= he continues making jokes when he should have stopped).
- to move your body in a particular way: 
    You can tell she's a dancer from the way that she carries herself.
- to put a number into another column when doing addition
- to be pregnant with a child: 
    It was quite a shock to learn that she was carrying twins.
    I was enormous when I was carrying Josh.
- in American football, to carry the ball forward across the field, gaining an advantage for your team: 
    Every running back wants to carry the ball.
    Johnson carried 26 times for 202 yards.
- the act of carrying a gun: 
    For daily carry by officers, weapons should be durable and easy to clean.
- in American football, an occasion when a player carries the ball forward across the field, gaining an advantage for his or her team: 
    The yards gained on a carry are referred to as "rushing yards".
    He currently holds the record for the most career carries.
- the act of carrying someone, especially a child: 
    She was tired and wanted a carry.
    Shall I give you a carry?
- relating to the carrying of a gun: 
    Basically, it's impossible to get a carry permit in New York. 
    Illinois one of only two states without a carry law. 
idioms:
 carry a torch for sb
 carry a tune
 carry the ball
 carry the can
 carry the day
 concealed carry
 open carry
phrasal verbs:
 carry sb away
 carry sth forward/over
 carry sth off
 carry (sth) on
 carry on
 carry sth out
 carry sth over
 carry (sth) over
 carry sb through (sth)
 carry sth through

centre /ˈsen.tər/
- the middle point or part: 
    There was a large table in the centre of the room.
    the town centre
- the person or thing that everyone is most interested in and pays most attention to: 
    She's the centre of attention everywhere she goes.
- to be most involved in a situation: 
    Mark was at the centre of the argument.
    A social worker was at the centre of the scandal.
- a place or building, especially one where a particular activity happens: 
    a sports/leisure/health centre
    a garden/shopping centre
    Grants will be given to establish centres of excellence (= places where a particular activity is done extremely well) in this field of research.
- in politics, the people in a group who hold opinions that are not extreme but are between two opposites: 
    His political views are known to be left of/right of centre.
    a centre left party
- to put something in the middle of an area: 
    Centre (= put at equal distances from the left and right sides of the page) all the headings in this document.
phrasal verbs:
 centre around/on sth

century /ˈsen.tʃər.i/
- a period of 100 years: 
    The city centre has scarcely changed in over a century.
    This sculpture must be centuries old.
    Her medical career spanned half a century.
- a period of 100 years counted from what is believed to be the year of the birth of Jesus Christ: 
    Rome was founded in the eighth century BC (= before Christ).
    He's an expert on 15th-century Italian art.
- a score of 100 runs in cricket
- the time when one century ends and another begins: 
    The museum reopened at the turn of the century.

circle /ˈsɜː.kəl/
- a continuous curved line, the points of which are always the same distance away from a fixed central point, or the area inside such a line: 
    Coloured paper was cut into circles.
    We sat in a circle.
- a group of people with family, work, or social connections: 
    The subject was never discussed outside the family circle.
    She's not one of my close circle of friends.
    We never meet these days - we move in different circles (= do not have the same group of friends).
- an upper floor in a theatre or cinema where people sit to watch the performance: 
    Shall I get seats in the circle or in the stalls?
- to move in a circle, often around something: 
    The plane circled for an hour before receiving permission to land.
    Security staff circled the grounds of the house with guard dogs every hour.
- to draw a circle around something: 
    Circle the answer you think is correct.
idioms:
 go/run round in circles
 go/run around in circles

cloud /klaʊd/
- a grey or white mass in the sky, made up of very small floating drops of water: 
    Do you think those are rain clouds on the horizon?
    The sky was a perfect blue - not a cloud in sight.
    Dark clouds massed on the horizon.
    There was so much cloud, we couldn't see anything.
- a mass of something such as dust or smoke that looks like a cloud: 
    On the eastern horizon, a huge cloud of smoke from burning oil tanks stretched across the sky.
    The initial cloud of tear gas had hardly cleared before shots were fired.
- a computer network where files and programs can be stored, especially the internet: 
    All the photographs are kept on the cloud rather than on hard drives.
- If something transparent clouds, or if something clouds it, it becomes difficult to see through.
- to make someone confused, or make something more difficult to understand: 
    When it came to explaining the lipstick on his collar, he found that drink had clouded (= confused) his memory.
idioms:
 be on cloud nine
 be under a cloud
 a cloud hanging over sb
 a cloud on the horizon
 every cloud has a silver lining
phrasal verbs:
 cloud over

cost /kɒst/
- the amount of money needed to buy, do, or make something: 
    When you buy a new computer, you usually get software included at no extra cost (= for no additional money).
    In most families, two salaries are essential to cover the cost of (= pay for) raising a family.
    The supermarket chain announced that it was cutting the cost (= reducing the price) of all its fresh and frozen meat.
    It's difficult for most people to deal with the rising cost of (= increasing price of) healthcare.
    I was able to buy the damaged goods at cost (= for only the amount of money needed to produce or get the goods, without any extra money added for profit).
- the amount of money needed for a business or to do a particular job: 
    We need to cut our advertising costs.
    The estimated costs of the building project are well over £1 million.
- something that is given, needed, or lost in order to get a particular thing: 
    We were going to paint the house ourselves, but when we considered the cost in time and effort, we decided to get a painter to do it for us.
    The driver managed not to hit the child who ran in front of his car, but only at the cost of injuring himself.
    She has finally got the job she wanted, but at great personal cost (= she has had to give up other things that were important to her).
    It's not worth getting into an argument with Paula, as I learned to my cost (= from my unpleasant experience of having done so).
- If something costs an amount of money, you must pay that amount to buy or do it: 
    "How much does this book cost?" "It costs £25."
    It costs a lot to buy a house in this part of Sydney.
    The trip will cost you $1,000.
- to calculate the future cost of something: 
    My boss asked me to cost the materials for the new fence and gate.
    Has your plan been properly costed (out)?
- to cause someone to lose or destroy something valuable: 
    Drinking and driving costs lives (= can cause accidents in which people die).
    His affairs cost him his marriage (= his marriage ended because of them).
idioms:
 cost sb dear
 cost an arm and a leg/a small fortune
 it'll cost you
 at all cost(s)

cold /kəʊld/
- at a low temperature, especially when compared to the temperature of the human body, and not hot, or warm: 
    a cold day/house
    cold food/water
    cold hands
    cold weather
    My feet are so cold.
    It's freezing cold today.
    You'll feel cold if you don't wear a coat.
- not showing kindness, love, or emotion and not friendly: 
    His handshake was cold, and his eyes lifeless.
    He stared into her cold, blue eyes.
    She would never feel welcome in this city with its cold, unsmiling inhabitants.
    The school was a cold, unwelcoming place.
- If a case (= a crime or series of events) that is being investigated is cold, it has not been solved and is no longer expected to be solved: 
    The police spared no effort to keep the case from going cold.
    At the time of his confession, the trail was turning cold, and investigators had given up on ever catching the killer.
- a common infection, especially in the nose and throat, that often causes a cough, a slight fever, and sometimes some pain in the muscles: 
    I've got a cold.
    She caught a cold at school.
    Don't come near me - I've got a stinking/streaming cold (= extremely bad cold).
- cold weather or temperatures: 
    Don't stand out there in the cold, come in here and get warm.
    Old people tend to feel the cold (= feel uncomfortable in cold temperatures) more than the young.
    My feet were numb with cold.
idioms:
 be (as) cold as ice
 be cold comfort
 cold hands, warm heart
 get cold feet
 give sb the cold shoulder
 in cold blood
 in the cold light of day
 pour/throw cold water on sth
 you're getting colder

column /ˈkɒl.əm/
- one of several vertical blocks of print into which a page of a newspaper or magazine is divided: 
    I didn't have time to read the whole article - just the first column.
- a piece of writing in a newspaper or magazine, usually on a particular subject, that is always written by the same person and appears regularly: 
    She writes a weekly fashion/gossip column for the Evening Standard.
- any vertical block of words or numbers: 
    Add the column of figures and divide the sum by three.
- a tall, vertical stone post, used as a support for a roof or in classical buildings (= in the style of ancient Greece or Rome) for decoration, or standing alone as a monument (= a symbol of respect for a special person or event): 
    The roof of the temple was held up by a row of thick stone columns.
    Nelson's Column in Trafalgar Square
- something with a tall, narrow shape: 
    A column of smoke rose from the chimney.
- a line of moving people or vehicles: 
    a column of refugees

common /ˈkɒm.ən/
- the same in a lot of places or for a lot of people: 
    It's quite common to see couples who dress alike.
    "Smith" is a very common name in Britain.
- the basic level of politeness that you expect from someone
- a fact that everyone knows: 
    It's common knowledge that they live together.
- belonging to or shared by two or more people, or things: 
    a common goal/interest
    English has some features common to many languages.
- If something is done for the common good, it is done to help everyone.
- to act together with someone in order to achieve something: 
    Environmental protesters have made common cause with local people to stop the motorway being built.
- typical of a low social class: 
    My mum thinks dyed blonde hair is a bit common.
- an area of grass that everyone is allowed to use, usually in or near a village
- to share interests, experiences, or other characteristics with someone or something: 
    We don't really have much in common.
- in the same way as someone or something: 
    In common with many mothers, she feels torn between her family and her work.
idioms:
 the common man
 the common touch

compere /ˈkɒm.peər/
- a person whose job is to introduce performers in a television, radio, or stage show: 
    He started his career as a TV compere.
- to act as a compere: 
    She comperes that awful game show on Saturday night.

condition /kənˈdɪʃ.ən/
- the particular state that something or someone is in: 
    Mum's still got our pram - it's very old, but it's in perfect condition.
    They left the flat in a terrible condition - there was mess everywhere.
    The hospital say her condition (= state of health) is improving slowly.
    He's in no condition (= he is too sick or too drunk) to drive home.
- the physical situation that someone or something is in and affected by: 
    weather conditions
    Working conditions here are primitive.
    The prisoners were kept in the most appalling conditions.
    Under what conditions do plants grow best?
    Riis devoted his life to improving conditions in urban slums.
- any of different types of diseases: 
    to suffer from a heart/skin condition
    a medical condition
- not healthy enough for hard physical exercise, as a result of not taking part in sport or other physical activities
- an arrangement that must exist before something else can happen: 
    One of the conditions in the contract is that we don't build on the land.
    We're not in a position to make/set any conditions - we'll have to accept what they offer us.
    Under the conditions of the agreement, she must vacate the house on 12 July .
- only if: 
    I'll come to the party on the condition that you don't wear those ridiculous trousers!
- to train or influence a person or animal mentally so that they do or expect a particular thing without thinking about it: 
    a conditioned reflex/response
    Pavlov conditioned dogs to salivate at the sound of a bell.
    Women were conditioned to expect lower wages than men.
- to try to improve the quality or appearance of your hair, skin, etc. by putting a conditioner on it

contain /kənˈteɪn/
- to have something inside or include something as a part: 
    How much liquid do you think this bottle contains?
    I lost a file containing a lot of important documents.
    Try to avoid foods which contain a lot of fat.
    The allegations contained in this report are very serious.
- to keep something harmful within limits and not allow it to spread: 
    Farms in the area have been closed off in an attempt to contain the disease.
    More police were sent to help contain the violence.
- to control or hide a strong emotion, such as excitement or anger: 
    She could no longer contain her anger and started yelling at him.
    Contain yourself! It's not that exciting.

continue /kənˈtɪn.juː/
- to keep happening, existing, or doing something, or to cause something or someone to do this: 
    It's said that as the boat went down the band continued to play.
    If she continues drinking like that, I'll have to carry her home.
    Do you intend to continue (with) your studies?
    If the rain continues, we'll have to cancel tonight's plans.
    Sally Palmer will be continuing as chairperson this autumn.
    The article continues/is continued on page ten.
- to start to do something again after a pause: 
    After stopping for a quick drink, they continued on their way.
    He paused for a moment to listen and then continued eating.
    The president continued by saying that his country was a free country and would always remain so.
    "I don't like your weather!" she shouted, "and I don't," she continued, "like your food!"

cook /kʊk/
- When you cook food, you prepare it to be eaten by heating it in a particular way, such as baking or boiling, and when food cooks, it is heated until it is ready to eat: 
    I don't cook meat very often.
    He cooked us a huge dinner./He cooked a huge dinner for us.
    Let the fish cook for half an hour before you add the wine.
- someone who prepares and cooks food: 
    She's a wonderful cook.
idioms:
 be cooking
 cook sb's goose
 cook the books
 what's cooking?
 too many cooks spoil the broth
phrasal verbs:
 cook sth up

copy /ˈkɒp.i/
- to produce something so that it is the same as an original piece of work: 
    They've copied the basic design from the Japanese model and added a few of their own refinements.
    Patricia's going to copy her novel onto a flash drive and send it to me.
    He was always copying from/off other students (= cheating by copying), but never got caught.
- to behave, dress, speak, etc. in a way that is intended to be like someone else, for example, because you admire that person: 
    He tends to copy his brother in the way he dresses.
- If you copy and paste something on a computer screen, you move it from one area to another.
- something that has been made to be exactly like something else: 
    This painting is only a copy - the original hangs in the Louvre.
    I always keep a copy of any official or important letters that I send off.
    Could you make a copy of (= use a special machine to copy) this for tomorrow's meeting, please?
- a single book, newspaper, record, or other printed or recorded text of which many have been produced: 
    The library has copies of all the national and local newspapers.
- written text that is to be printed, or text that is intended to help with the sale of a product: 
    We need someone who can write good copy for our publicity department.
phrasal verbs:
 copy sth down
 copy sb in
 copy sth out

cow /kaʊ/
- a large female farm animal kept to produce meat and milk: 
    a dairy cow
- a large female adult mammal such as an elephant, a whale, or a seal: 
    a cow elephant
- an unkind or unpleasant woman: 
    You stupid cow!
- something difficult or unpleasant: 
    It's been a cow of a day.
- to frighten someone into doing something, using threats or violence: 
    The protesters refused to be cowed into submission by the army.
idioms:
 have a cow
 till/until the cows come home

create /kriˈeɪt/
- to make something new, or invent something: 
    Charles Schulz created the characters "Snoopy" and "Charlie Brown".
    The Bible says that God created the world.
    He created a wonderful meal from very few ingredients.
    It's important to create a good impression when you meet a new client.
- to show that you are angry: 
    If she sees you with an ice cream she'll only start creating.

cross /krɒs/
- to go across from one side of something to the other: 
    It's not a good place to cross the road.
    Look both ways before you cross over (= cross the road).
    Cross the bridge and turn right.
    They crossed from Albania into Greece.
- If something crosses your mind, you think of it: 
    It crossed my mind yesterday that you must be short of staff.
    It never once crossed my mind that she might be unhappy.
- to put one of your arms, fingers, or legs over the top of the other: 
    She sat down and crossed her legs.
- to annoy someone by not doing or saying what they want: 
    I wouldn't cross him if I were you, not if you value your life.
- If you cross a plant or animal with another of a different type, you cause them to breed together in order to produce a new variety (= type of plant or animal).
- in some sports, to hit, kick, or throw the ball across the playing area to another player, not forwards or backwards: 
    He crossed (the ball) to Bremer, who somehow failed to score from two metres out.
- to draw two lines across the middle of a cheque to show that it needs to be paid into a bank account: 
    a crossed cheque
- When Catholics and some other types of Christians cross themselves, they move their hand down and then across their face or chest, making the shape of a cross.
- a written mark (x or +) formed by two lines going across each other. The mark x is usually used to show where something is, or that something has not been written correctly.
- an object made of one long upright piece of wood, with a smaller piece across it near the top. In the past, people were tied or fastened with nails to crosses as a punishment and left hanging on them until they died. 
- an object in the shape of a cross that people were killed on, used as a symbol of Christianity: 
    Christ died on the Cross.
    She wears a gold cross around her neck.
    The priest made the sign of the cross (= moved his or her hand down and then across the chest) over the dead bodies.
- a medal in the shape of a cross: 
    In Britain, the Victoria Cross is awarded for acts of great bravery during wartime.
- a mixture of two different things that have been combined to produce something new: 
    Police dogs are often a cross between a retriever and a German Shepherd.
- in some sports, a kick, hit, or throw of the ball that goes from one side of the playing area to the other, not forwards or backwards: 
    He headed the ball into the net, after a great cross from Pele. 
- annoyed or angry: 
    My Dad gets cross (with me) if I leave the kitchen in a mess.
- across: 
    cross-border
- including different groups or subjects: 
    cross-party discussions
idioms:
 cross your fingers
 cross sb's hand/palm with silver
 cross my heart (and hope to die)
 cross the line
 cross sb's path/cross paths with sb
 cross swords
 I'll/we'll cross that bridge when I/we come/get to it
 a (heavy) cross to bear
phrasal verbs:
 cross sb/sth off (sth)
 cross sth out
 cross over

crowd /kraʊd/
- a large group of people who have come together: 
    A crowd of about 15,000 attended the concert.
- a group of friends or a group of people with similar interests: 
    She goes around with a friendly crowd.
    "Who was there?" "Oh, the usual crowd."
- to make someone feel uncomfortable by standing too close to them or by watching them all the time: 
    I need some time to do this work properly, so don't crowd me.
idioms:
 follow the crowd
phrasal verbs:
 crowd (sth) into sth
 crowd sb/sth out
 crowd around (sb/sth)

describe /dɪˈskraɪb/
- to say or write what someone or something is like: 
    Could you describe your attacker?
    He described the painting in detail.
    Let me describe (to you) how it happened.
    She described Gary as shy.
- If you describe a shape, you draw it or move in a direction that follows the line of it: 
    He used compasses to describe a circle.
- to recognize a plant or animal as belonging to a particular type, and give it a scientific name: 
    So far, scientists have described 15,482 marine fish species, up from 15,304 a year ago.
    The scientific name for mountain laurel is Kalmia latifolia, from Peter Kalm, an 18th-century botanist who first described the species.

desert /ˈdez.ət/
- an area, often covered with sand or rocks, where there is very little rain and not many plants: 
    They were lost in the desert for nine days.
    We had to cross a large area of arid, featureless desert.
    the desert sun
- a place that is considered to have no cultural, intellectual, etc. quality or interest: 
    This town is a cultural desert.
- to leave the armed forces without permission and with no intention of returning: 
    Soldiers who deserted and were caught were shot.
    How many people desert from the army each year?
- to leave someone without help or in a difficult situation and not come back: 
    He deserted his wife and family for another woman.
- If a quality deserts you, you suddenly and temporarily lose it: 
    All my confidence/courage deserted me when I walked into the exam.

design /dɪˈzaɪn/
- to make or draw plans for something, for example clothes or buildings: 
    Who designed this building/dress/furniture?
    This range of clothing is specially designed for shorter women.
- to intend: 
    This dictionary is designed for advanced learners of English.
    These measures are designed to reduce pollution.
- a drawing or set of drawings showing how a building or product is to be made and how it will work and look: 
    Have you seen the designs for the new shopping centre?
- the art of making plans or drawings for something: 
    She's an expert on kitchen/software design.
    He's studying design in Paris.
- the way in which something is planned and made: 
    I don't like the design of this sofa.
    The building was originally Victorian in design.
    a serious design fault
    The car has some excellent design features.
- a pattern used to decorate something: 
    a floral/abstract design
    I like the design on your sweatshirt.
- intentionally: 
    I'm sure he ignored you by accident and not by design.
- plans, often ones that are not honest, to get something or someone for yourself: 
    to have territorial designs (on neighbouring countries)
    I think Alan has designs on your job/wife!

detail /ˈdiː.teɪl/
- a single piece of information or fact about something: 
    She insisted on telling me every single detail of what they did to her in hospital.
    We don't know the full/precise details of the story yet.
    She refused to disclose/divulge any details about/of the plan.
- information about someone or something: 
    A police officer took down the details of what happened.
    Can I have your details (= name and address, etc.), please?
- the small features of something that you only notice when you look carefully: 
    I was just admiring the detail in the doll's house - even the tins of food have labels on them.
    It's his eye for (= ability to notice) detail that distinguishes him as a painter.
- including or considering all the information about something or every part of something: 
    We haven't discussed the matter in detail yet.
    The book described her suffering in graphic detail.
    He talked in great detail about the furniture he's chosen for the living room.
- to tell or include all the facts about something: 
    I won't go into detail over the phone, but I've been having a few health problems recently.
- a part of something that does not seem important: 
    Tony says, he's going to get the car, and finding the money to pay for it is just a minor detail.
- a group of people who have been given a particular task
- to describe something completely, giving all the facts: 
    Can you produce a report detailing what we've spent on the project so far?
- to order someone, often a small group of soldiers or workers, to perform a particular task: 
    Four soldiers were detailed to check the road for troops.
- to clean the inside and outside of a vehicle very carefully: 
    You can skip the car wash; Rogers has all the equipment to wash and detail your car in your own driveway.
    a car detailing company

dictionary /ˈdɪk.ʃən.ər.i/
- a book that contains a list of words in alphabetical order and explains their meanings, or gives a word for them in another language; an electronic product giving similar information on a computer, smartphone, etc.: 
    a French-English/English-French dictionary
    a bilingual/monolingual dictionary
    To check how a word is spelled, look it up in a dictionary.
    Our online dictionary is regularly updated with new entries.
- a book that gives information about a particular subject, in which the entries (= words or phrases) are given in alphabetical order, or a similar electronic product: 
    a biographical/science dictionary
    a dictionary of quotations
    The world's most ambitious online dictionary of Architects has been launched in Scotland.
- a list of words in electronic form that is used by a computer or smartphone, for example, in a program that checks your spelling when you type: 
    Each word is checked by the computer against its internal dictionary.

direction /daɪˈrek.ʃən/
- the position towards which someone or something moves or faces: 
    "No, go that way," I said, pointing in the opposite direction.
    He was going in the direction of the bedroom.
    They drove away in opposite directions.
- instructions that you give to someone about how to find a particular place: 
    Can you give me directions to your house?
    "Did you have any trouble finding the theatre?" "No, your directions were excellent."
- the area or position that someone is in: 
    She keeps looking in my direction.
- the ability to find places or to know which direction to go: 
    a good sense of direction
    Which way is it? - I have no/a lousy sense of direction!
- control or instruction: 
    The project was under the direction of a well-known academic.
- information or orders telling you what to do: 
    I couldn't understand the directions on the packet.
    He will be giving/issuing directions to judges on sentencing in the next few days.
- the way that someone or something changes or develops: 
    There is disagreement over the direction the project is taking.
    Her latest album represents a change of direction for her.
    This plan isn't perfect, but it's a step in the right direction.
idioms:
 lack direction

ear /ɪər/
- either of the two organs, one on each side of the head, by which people or animals hear sounds, or the piece of skin and tissue outside the head connected to this organ: 
    The hearing in my left ear's not so good.
    She leaned over and whispered something in his ear.
- the flower part of a plant like a grass, such as wheat, that later contains the grains that are used as food: 
    an ear of corn
idioms:
 be all ears
 be out on your ear
 be up to your ears in sth
 close your ears
 ears are flapping
 your ears must be burning
 go in one ear and out the other
 grin/smile from ear to ear
 have an ear for sth
 have the ear of sb
 have/keep your ear to the ground

east /iːst/
- the direction from which the sun rises in the morning, opposite to the west, or the part of an area or country that is in this direction: 
    The points of the compass are north, south, east, and west.
    Which way is east?
    Most of the country, except the east, is rural.
    Her home is in the east of France.
    According to the map, the village lies about ten kilometres to the east of here.
- Asia, especially its eastern and southern parts: 
    She spent her childhood in the East - mostly in China.
- those countries in Europe that had communist governments before the 1990s: 
    The collapse of Communism changed East-West relations for ever.
- in or forming the east part of something: 
    Cambridge is in East Anglia.
    The east wall of the mosque is covered with a beautiful mosaic.
- a wind coming from the east
- towards the east: 
    We'll drive east for a few more miles, then turn south.
    They were the first people to travel east of the mountains (= into the area beyond and to the east of the mountains).
    We walked due (= directly) east for two kilometres.
    The garden faces east, so we'll get the morning sun.
idioms:
 back east

like /laɪk/
- to enjoy or approve of something or someone: 
    I like your new haircut.
    Do you like fish?
    I like it when a book is so good that you can't put it down.
    I quite like wine but I could live without it.
    He's very well-liked (= popular) at work.
    I like the way he just assumes we'll listen to him when he doesn't take in a word anyone else says! (= I don't like it and it annoys me.)
    I don't like upsetting people.
    He likes to spend his evenings in front of the television.
    He likes his steak well-done.
- to show that you think something is good on a social networking website by clicking on a symbol or the word 'like': 
    Like us on Facebook!
    More than 200 people liked my post.
- used to say politely that you want something: 
    I think I'd like the soup for my starter.
    I'd like to go to Moscow.
    I would like to say a big thank you to everyone who's helped to make our wedding such a special occasion!
- used in requests: 
    I'd like one of the round loaves, please.
    I'd like to book a seat for tonight's performance.
    I'd like you to send this for me, please.
    I would like the whole lot finished by the weekend.
- similar to; in the same way or manner as: 
    He looks like his brother.
    She's very much like her mother (= she is similar in appearance or character).
    Is Japanese food like Chinese?
    I've got a sweater just like that.
    Her hair was so soft it was like silk.
    You're acting like a complete idiot!
    She sings like an angel!
    Like I said (= as I have already said), I don't wear perfume.
    Like most people (= as most people would), I'd prefer to have enough money not to work.
    It feels/seems like (= it seems to me) ages since we last spoke.
    There's nothing like a good cup of coffee (= it's better than anything)!
- in a way that suggests: 
    It looks like I'm going to be in the office until late tonight.
    It looks like rain (= I think it is going to rain).
    It sounds to me like you ought to change jobs.
    You look like you've just got out of bed!
    She acts like she's stupid!
- typical or characteristic of: 
    That's just like Maisie to turn up half an hour late to her own party!
    It's not like you to be so quiet - are you all right, my love?
- such as: 
    She looks best in bright, vibrant colours, like red and pink.
- used before you describe how you were feeling or what you said when something happened to you: 
    Then I saw how late it was and I'm like, so upset.
    He started shouting at me and I'm like, "What's your problem? I'm on your side!"
- used in conversation as a pause or to emphasize an adjective: 
    He's, like, really friendly - someone you can talk to.
    If there's nothing you can do to change the situation, it's like - why bother?
- a person, thing, or group similar in character or quality to the one mentioned: 
    Boxing hasn't seen the likes of Muhammad Ali since he retired.
    He was a very great actor - we won't see his like again.
    He described a superlative meal, the like of which he'd never eaten before.
    They're competing with the likes of Microsoft.
- and similar things: 
    There's a big sports hall for tennis and badminton and such like.
- the things that someone enjoys: 
    The star lists his likes as "my new Porsche, my girlfriend, and staying up all night."
    They can't expect me to accommodate all their silly little likes and dislikes.
- not for the type of people mentioned: 
    First-class travel is for rich people - it's not for the likes of us.
- (on a page on a social networking website) an act of showing that you think something is good by clicking a button: 
    My new profile picture got 100 likes.
- to be likely to do something
- like the thing mentioned: 
    The paper criticized what it described as the animal-like behaviour of the fans.
    There was a large, ball-like structure on top of the building.
    childlike trust
    a cabbage-like vegetable
idioms:
 how do you like...?
 how would you like...?
 I'd like to see...
 if you like
 like it or lump it
 what's not to like?
 would you like...?
 like a dog with two tails
 like two peas in a pod
 like you care!/like you'd know!/like he'd ask!
 what are you like?
 what is sb/sth like?
 be of like mind

edge /edʒ/
- the outer or furthest point of something: 
    He put pink icing around the edge of the cake.
    They built the church on the edge of the village.
    A man was standing at the water's edge with a small boy.
    I caught (= hit) my leg on the edge of the table as I walked past.
- the side of a blade that cuts, or any sharp part of an object that could cut: 
    Careful with that open can - it's got a very sharp edge.
- the point just before something very different and noticeable happens: 
    The company is on the edge of collapse.
    The government had brought the country to the edge of a catastrophe.
- If an unpleasant event pushes someone over the edge, it makes them start to behave in a crazy way: 
    She had been driven over the edge by the separation from her husband.
- an advantage over other people: 
    In terms of experience, she definitely had the edge over the other people that we interviewed.
- a small but noticeable amount of anger in someone's voice: 
    There's a definite edge to/in her voice when she talks to her husband.
- nervous and not relaxed: 
    Is something wrong? You seem a bit on edge this morning.
- to move slowly with gradual movements or in gradual stages, or to make someone or something move in this way: 
    A long line of traffic edged its way forward.
    Inflation has edged up to five percent over the last two years.
    Those who disagreed with the CEO's viewpoint were gradually edged out of (= forced to leave) the company.
- to win by a very small amount; to beat or move ahead of another person or team by a very small amount: 
    Opinion polls showed him edging into a slight lead.
    Germany edged Australia 5-4.
    Both players gave a good performance but I think Nick just edged it.
idioms:
 on the edge of your seat
 take the edge off sth

effect /ɪˈfekt/
- the result of a particular influence: 
    The radiation leak has had a disastrous effect on/upon the environment.
    I tried taking tablets for the headache but they didn't have any effect.
    I think I'm suffering from the effects of too little sleep.
    She has a lot of confidence, which she uses to good effect (= to her advantage) in interviews.
- to produce or achieve the results you want: 
    They had to wait ten minutes for the anaesthetic to take effect before they stitched up the cut.
- If you say or do something for effect, you intentionally do it to shock people or attract their attention: 
    I get the impression that she uses bad language in meetings for effect.
- in fact, or in practice: 
    So in effect the government have lowered taxes for the rich and raised them for the poor.
- used to express that what you are reporting is only a short and general form of what was really said: 
    She said she was unhappy, or words to that effect.
    He said something to the effect that he would have to change jobs if the situation continued.
- use: 
    The present system of payment will remain in effect (= be used) until the end of the rental agreement.
    When do the new driving laws come into effect?
    The new salary increases will take effect (= begin) from January onwards.
- lighting, sounds, and objects that are specially produced for the stage or a film and are intended to make something that does not exist seem real: 
    This is a movie worth seeing for its effects alone.
- a person's possessions, especially after their death: 
    It says on the form that the insurance covers all personal effects.
- to achieve something and cause it to happen: 
    As a political party they are trying to effect a change in the way that we think about our environment.

egg /eɡ/
- the oval object with a hard shell that is produced by female birds, especially chickens, eaten as food: 
    a hard-boiled/soft-boiled egg
    How do you like your eggs - fried or boiled?
- an object that is made in the shape of a bird's egg: 
    a chocolate/marble egg
- an oval object, often with a hard shell, that is produced by female birds and particular reptiles and insects, and contains a baby animal that comes out when it is developed: 
    The cuckoo lays her egg in another bird's nest.
    After fourteen days the eggs hatch.
- a cell produced by a woman or female animal from which a baby can develop if it combines with a male sex cell: 
    Identical twins develop from a single fertilized egg that then splits into two.
idioms:
 have egg on your face
 put all your eggs in one basket

element /ˈel.ɪ.mənt/
- a part of something: 
    List the elements that make up a perfect dinner party.
    The movie had all the elements of a good thriller.
    We weren't even taught the elements of (= basic information about) physics at school.
- a small amount of an emotion or quality: 
    There was certainly an element of truth in what she said.
    Don't you think there's an element of jealousy in all of this?
    We walked quietly up to the door to preserve the element of surprise.
- a simple substance that cannot be reduced to smaller chemical parts: 
    Aluminium is an element.
- earth, air, fire, and water from which people in the past believed everything else was made
- the weather, usually bad weather: 
    We decided to brave the elements and go for a walk (= go for a walk despite the bad weather).
- the part of an electrical device that produces heat: 
    a heating element
    The kettle needs a new element.
- a circular piece of material often made of metal that can be heated in order to be used for cooking: 
    a gas element
    an electric element
idioms:
 be in your element
 be out of your element

energy /ˈen.ə.dʒi/
- the power and ability to be physically and mentally active: 
    Since I started eating more healthily I've got so much more energy.
    I was going to go out this evening, but I just haven't got the energy.
    I didn't even have the energy to get out of bed.
    Her writing is full of passion and energy (= enthusiasm).
- the total of all your power and ability to be mentally and physically active: 
    I'm going to channel all my energies into getting a better job.
- the power from something such as electricity or oil that can do work, such as providing light and heat: 
    The energy generated by the windmill drives all the drainage pumps.
    energy conservation/efficiency
    nuclear energy

engine /ˈen.dʒɪn/
- a machine that uses the energy from liquid fuel or steam to produce movement: 
    a jet engine
    a car engine
    My car's been having engine trouble recently.
- the part of a railway train that pulls it along
- something that provides power, often economic power, for other things: 
    For much of the 19th century Britain was the workshop of the world and the engine of economic growth.

England /ˈɪŋ.ɡlənd/
- a country that is part of the United Kingdom

English /ˈɪŋ.ɡlɪʃ/
- the language that is spoken in the UK, the US, and in many other countries: 
    American/British English
    Do you speak English?
- the people of England
- in or relating to the English language: 
    an English teacher
    an English translation
- relating to or from England: 
    English films/food/people
    English law
    Is she English?

example /ɪɡˈzɑːm.pəl/
- something that is typical of the group of things that it is a member of: 
    Could you give me an example of the improvements you have mentioned?
    This painting is a marvellous example of her work.
- a way of helping someone to understand something by showing them how it is used: 
    Study the examples first of all, then attempt the exercises on the next page.
- used when giving an example of the type of thing you mean: 
    Offices can easily become more environmentally-friendly by, for example, using recycled paper.
- a person or a way of behaving that is considered suitable to be copied: 
    He's a very good example to the rest of the class.
    He's decided to follow the example of his father and study law.
- a punishment that is intended to warn others against doing the thing that is being punished, or a person who receives such a punishment: 
    The judge made an example of him and gave him the maximum possible sentence.
idioms:
 set an example

express /ɪkˈspres/
- to show a feeling, opinion, or fact: 
    Her eyes expressed deep sadness.
    I would like to express my thanks for your kindness.
    Words can't express how happy I am.
    These figures are expressed as a percentage of the total.
- to communicate what you think or feel, by speaking or writing, or in some other way: 
    I'm afraid I'm not expressing myself very clearly.
    Children often express themselves in painting.
- to send something somewhere very quickly: 
    Your order will be expressed to you within 24 hours.
- moving or being sent fast: 
    Please send this letter by express delivery.
    an express train
    The dry cleaners offer a normal or an express service.
- clearly and intentionally stated: 
    It is my express wish that after my death, my books be given to my old college library.
    The lawyer argued that the accused had gone to the victim's house with the express purpose of killing her.
- using a service that does something faster than usual: 
    Send this parcel express.
- a train or bus that takes less time to do a journey than other trains or buses: 
    The quickest way to get here is to take the uptown express.
    the Orient Express
- a service that does something faster than usual: 
    This parcel needs to be sent by express.

famous /ˈfeɪ.məs/
- known and recognized by many people: 
    a famous actress/building
    Marie Curie is famous for her contribution to science.
    a city famous for its nightlife
idioms:
 famous last words

farm /fɑːm/
- an area of land, together with a house and buildings, used for growing crops and/or keeping animals as a business: 
    a dairy farm
    farm animals
    fresh farm produce
    farm workers
    She spent the summer working on a farm.
- a place where a particular type of animal is kept in large numbers in order to be sold: 
    a sheep/fish farm
- to use land for growing crops and/or keeping animals as a business: 
    The Stamfords have farmed this land for over a hundred years.
phrasal verbs:
 farm sth out
 farm sb out

field /fiːld/
- an area of land, used for growing crops or keeping animals, usually surrounded by a fence: 
    We drove past fields of ripening wheat.
    The cows were all standing in one corner of the field.
- a place where you are working or studying in real situations, rather than from an office, laboratory, etc. : 
    I spoke to an aid worker who had recently returned from the field.
- an area, usually covered with grass, used for playing sports: 
    the school playing/sports field
    a football/hockey/rugby field
- to go onto the field at the start of a game: 
    There were loud cheers as the Irish team took the field.
- an area of activity or interest: 
    the field of history/science/medicine
    Are you still in the same field (= are you doing the same type of work)?
- to be something you do not know much about: 
    Programming really isn't my field - you'd better ask Phil.
- all the competitors taking part in a race or activity: 
    The race started with a field of eleven, but two horses fell.
    We have a strong field this afternoon.
    Jones finished ahead of the field.
- a division of a database (= a collection of similar information on a computer) that contains a particular type of information, such as names or numbers
- to catch or pick up the ball after it has been hit in a game such as cricket or baseball, and to try to prevent the other team from scoring: 
    He fielded the ball well.
    Our team is fielding first.
- to avoid answering a question directly: 
    He fielded some awkward questions very skilfully.
- to have or produce a team of people to take part in an activity or event: 
    The company fielded a group of experts to take part in the conference.
- an area of land containing a particular natural substance: 
    an oilfield
    a coalfield
idioms:
 sb's field of vision
 leave the field open for sb

finger /ˈfɪŋ.ɡər/
- any of the long, thin, separate parts of the hand, especially those that are not thumbs: 
    He noticed her long delicate fingers.
    I cut my finger chopping onions last night.
- a part of a glove (= hand covering) that covers a finger
- to touch or feel something with your fingers: 
    She fingered her necklace absent-mindedly as she talked.
- If you finger someone, you tell the police that they are guilty of a crime.
idioms:
 be all fingers and thumbs
 cross your fingers
 give sb the finger
 have a finger in every pie
 have a finger in the pie
 have your fingers in the till
 have your finger on the trigger
 not lift/raise a finger
 point the finger at sb
 pull/get your finger out
 put your finger on sth

flat /flæt/
flat | flatter | flattest
- level and smooth, with no curved, high, or hollow parts: 
    An ice rink needs to be completely flat.
    Roll out the pastry on a flat surface.
    Much of the countryside in that region is very flat.
- level but having little or no height: 
    flat shoes (= ones without a raised heel)
- Flat bread is made without yeast, and therefore does not rise: 
    Pitta and nan are two types of flat bread.
- a hat that is not rounded on top and has little height
- not interesting, or without emotion or excitement: 
    After the excitement of the party, life seems somewhat flat now.
    I thought her performance a little flat.
    I think the colours in this painting are kind of flat (= not varied or bright).
- with no electrical power left in it: 
    I left my car lights on and now the battery is flat.
- If a drink is flat, it has stopped being fizzy (= with bubbles): 
    If you don't put the top back on that bottle of beer, it will go flat.
- complete or certain, and not likely to change: 
    His request for time off work was met with a flat refusal.
    The official has issued a flat denial of the accusations against her.
- If something such as a tyre or ball is flat, it does not contain enough air: 
    I got a flat tyre (= the air went out of it) after driving over a nail.
- (especially of an amount of money) fixed and not likely to change: 
    We charge a flat fee/rate of $25 per hour.
- If profits, sales, etc. are flat, they are not growing or increasing: 
    Demand for our machinery abroad is increasing, while growth is flat at home.
- a set of rooms for living in that are part of a larger building and are usually all on one floor: 
    a furnished/unfurnished flat
    a block of flats
    They have a house in the country and a flat in Manchester.
- an area of low, level ground, often near water: 
    The salt flats are used for motor racing.
    The mud flats attract large numbers of birds.
- the palm and fingers when they are held straight and level: 
    He hit me with the flat of his hand.
- to be on a level surface, not on a slope or hill: 
    Most of the path is on the flat.
- a tyre that does not have any or enough air in it : 
    We were late because we had to stop and fix a flat.
- women's shoes without high heels: 
    I feel more comfortable in flats.
- (a symbol for) a note that is a semitone lower than a stated note
- (in music) lower than a particular note or the correct note: 
    The top string on your violin is flat.
    She sang flat throughout the song (= all the notes she sang were too low).
- in a level position, often against another surface: 
    Lay the cloth flat across the table.
- into a flat shape without height: 
    These patio chairs will fold flat for storage.
- completely or to the greatest degree possible: 
    She told him flat that she would not go to the show.
    Could you lend me some money, I'm flat broke (= I have no money).
- exactly three minutes, half an hour, etc.: 
    We managed to get to the station in five minutes flat.
- as fast or as hard as possible: 
    My car only does about 60 mph, even when it's going flat out.
    We've been working flat out to get this done.
idioms:
 and that's flat!
 be (as) flat as a pancake

flower /flaʊər/
- the part of a plant that is often brightly coloured and has a pleasant smell, or the type of plant that produces these: 
    wild flowers
    to pick flowers
    a bunch/bouquet of flowers
    cut/dried flowers
- to develop completely and become obvious: 
    Her talent flowered during her later years.
- to produce flowers: 
    When does this plant flower?
idioms:
 the flower of sth
 in flower
 in the flower of sb's youth

foot /fʊt/
- the part of the body at the bottom of the leg on which a person or animal stands: 
    I've got a blister on my left foot.
    I've been on my feet (= standing) all day and I'm exhausted.
    You look tired. Why don't you put your feet up (= sit or lie down with your feet resting on something)?
    Please wipe your feet (= clean the bottom of your shoes) before you come into the house.
- to stand up after you have been sitting: 
    He rose to his feet when she walked in.
- walking: 
    Are you going by bicycle or on foot?
- a unit of measurement, equal to twelve inches or 0.3048 metres, sometimes shown by the symbol ′: 
    The man was standing only a few feet away.
    She is five feet/foot three inches tall.
    She is 5′ 3″ tall.
- the bottom or lower end of a space or object: 
    They built a house at the foot of a cliff.
    She dreamed she saw someone standing at the foot of her bed.
    There's a note explaining the quotation at the foot of the page.
- a unit of division of a line of poetry containing one strong beat and one or two weaker ones
- to pay an amount of money: 
    His parents footed the bill for his college tuition.
    They refused to foot the cost of the wedding.
    The company will foot her expenses.
idioms:
 be back on your feet
 land on your feet
 get your feet wet
 get a/your foot in the door
 get off on the right/wrong foot
 have a foot in both camps
 have feet of clay
 have one foot in the grave
 have/keep your feet on the ground
 my foot
 not put a foot wrong
 put your foot down
 put your foot in it
 hardly/barely put one foot in front of the other
 rush/run sb off their feet
 set foot in somewhere
 under your feet

forest /ˈfɒr.ɪst/
- a large area of land covered with trees and plants, usually larger than a wood, or the trees and plants themselves: 
    the Black Forest
    The children got lost in the forest.
idioms:
 not see the forest for the trees

form /fɔːm/
- to begin to exist or to make something begin to exist: 
    A crowd formed around the accident.
    A solution began to form in her mind.
    I formed the impression (= the way she behaved suggested to me) that she didn't really want to come.
- to make something into a particular shape: 
    She formed the clay into a small bowl.
- to make or be something: 
    The lorries formed a barricade across the road.
    Together they would form the next government.
    This information formed the basis of the report.
- If separate things form, they come together to make a whole: 
    The children formed into lines.
- a paper or set of papers printed with spaces in which answers to questions can be written or information can be recorded in an organized way: 
    an application form (= document used for asking officially for something, for example a job)
    an entry form (= document used to enter a competition)
    Please fill in/out the form with black ink.
    When you have completed the form, hand it in at the desk.
- a type of something: 
    Swimming is the best form of exercise.
- the shape or appearance of something: 
    I could just about make out his sleeping form on the bed.
    The moon highlighted the shadowy forms of the hills.
    The lawn was laid out in the form of the figure eight.
- to gradually be seen or gradually develop: 
    Trees and hedges started to take form as the fog cleared.
    As they chatted, the idea of going skiing together gradually took form.
- A competitor's form is their ability to be successful over a period of time: 
    Both horses have shown good form over the last season.
    After a bad year, she has regained her form.
- to be feeling or performing well: 
    Paul was on good form at the wedding and kept everyone entertained.
- one part of a verb or other word that has a special use or meaning: 
    The continuous form of "stand" is "standing".
    "Stood" is the irregular past tense form of "stand".
    "Hers" is the possessive form of "her".
    "Isn't" is the short form of "is not".
- in the UK, a class of school children or a group of classes of children of a similar age
- rude behaviour: 
    Was that bad form then, leaving so early?
- a long, thin seat, usually without a back

fresh /freʃ/
- new or different: 
    The original orders were cancelled and I was given fresh instructions.
    Fresh evidence has emerged that casts doubts on the men's conviction.
    We need to take a fresh look at the problem.
    Your coffee is cold - let me make you a fresh cup.
    There has been fresh fighting between police and demonstrators.
    They decided to move abroad and make a fresh start.
- new and therefore interesting or exciting: 
    His book offers some fresh insights into the events leading up to the war.
    We have tried to come up with a fresh new approach.
- recently made, done, arrived, etc., and especially not yet changed by time: 
    There was a fresh fall of snow during the night.
    There's nothing better than fresh bread, straight from the oven.
    The house, with its fresh coat of paint, looked beautiful in the sunshine.
    She's fresh out of college and very bright.
    The events of last year are still fresh in people's minds (= people can remember them easily).
- If you are fresh out of something, you have just finished or sold all of it, so that there is no more left.
- (of food or flowers) in a natural condition rather than artificially preserved by a process such as freezing: 
    fresh fruit and vegetables
    fresh fish/meat
    fresh coffee
- (of air) clean and cool; found outside rather than in a room: 
    I opened the window to let some fresh air in.
    fresh mountain air
    I'm just going out for a breath of fresh air.
- Fresh weather is cool, sometimes with wind: 
    It was a lovely, fresh spring morning.
    There's a fresh breeze today.
- clean and pleasant: 
    I felt wonderfully clean and fresh after my shower.
    I use a mouthwash to keep my breath fresh.
    This wine has a light, fresh taste.
- energetic, enthusiastic, and not tired: 
    I'll deal with this problem in the morning when I'm fresh.
    Try and get some sleep on the plane, then you'll arrive feeling fresh.
- (of a face) natural, healthy, and young looking: 
    She has a lovely fresh (= clear and smooth) complexion.
- (of water) not salty: 
    Trout are fresh water fish (= live in water that is not salty).
    These plants are found in fresh water lakes and rivers (= those containing water that is not salty).
- being too confident and showing no respect, or showing by your actions or words that you want to have sex with someone: 
    Don't you get fresh with me, young woman!
    He started getting fresh (= behaving in a sexual way) in the cinema, so she slapped his face.
- good and attractive or stylish: 
    You're looking fresh!
    fresh shoes
- recently done: 
    fresh-baked bread
    fresh-cut flowers
idioms:
 be as fresh as a daisy

fruit /fruːt/
- the soft part containing seeds that is produced by a plant. Many types of fruit are sweet and can be eaten: 
    Apricots are the one fruit I don't like.
    Oranges, apples, pears, and bananas are all types of fruit.
    Would you like some fruit for dessert?
    The cherry tree in our garden is in fruit (= it has fruit growing on it).
    I like exotic fruit, like mangoes and papayas.
    How many pieces of fresh fruit do you eat in a day?
    fruit trees
    He runs a fruit and vegetable stall in the market.
- the part of any plant that holds the seeds
- the pleasant or successful result of work or actions: 
    This book is the fruit of 15 years' research.
    It's been hard work, but now the business is running smoothly you can sit back and enjoy the fruits of your labours.
- a gay man. Many people consider this word offensive.
- When a plant fruits, it produces fruit: 
    Over the last few years, our apple trees have been fruiting much earlier than usual.
idioms:
 fruits of the earth

garden /ˈɡɑː.dən/
- a piece of land next to and belonging to a house, where flowers and other plants are grown, and often containing an area of grass: 
    garden tools/furniture
    a garden shed
    The house has a large back garden, and a small front garden.
    The children were playing in the garden.
- a piece of land, usually in a yard next to a house, where you grow flowers and vegetables: 
    a vegetable/flower garden
- a public park with flowers, plants, and places to sit: 
    the Botanical Gardens

gas /ɡæs/
- a substance in a form like air that is neither solid nor liquid: 
    Oxygen, hydrogen, and nitrogen are all gases.
    poisonous/inflammable/toxic gas
- a substance in a form like air that is used as a fuel for heating and cooking: 
    Do you prefer cooking with electricity or gas?
    A leak in the gas mains (= pipes) caused a major explosion.
    a gas-fired power station
- a substance in a form like air used for medical purposes to prevent people feeling pain or being conscious during an operation: 
    I had/was given gas when I had my wisdom teeth taken out.
- air in the bowels or in a baby's stomach, especially when this makes you feel uncomfortable or makes noises: 
    Beer gives me gas.
- a liquid obtained from petroleum, used especially as a fuel for cars, aircraft, and other vehicles: 
    I'll stop and get some gas - we're running low.
    a gas tank/pump
- the part of a car that you push with your foot to make it go faster: 
    Step on the gas (= drive faster)!
- a funny or enjoyable situation: 
    Some kids put on a show for the moms and dads, - it was a gas.
- to kill or injure a person by making them breathe poisonous gas: 
    Hundreds of thousands of soldiers were gassed in the First World War.
- to talk for a long time about things that are not important: 
    Susan came round and we sat gassing for hours.
phrasal verbs:
 gas (sth) up

gold /ɡəʊld/
- a chemical element that is a valuable, shiny, yellow metal used to make coins and jewellery: 
    gold jewellery
    a gold watch/necklace
- a small disc of gold that is given to the person who wins a competition, especially in a sport: 
    He's running so well - surely he'll take the gold.
- something that is very special or valuable: 
    The new show is pure comedy gold.
    Neither film seemed like box-office gold before it opened.
- made of gold, or the colour of gold: 
    a gold dome
    gold paint
idioms:
 go gold

group /ɡruːp/
- a number of people or things that are put together or considered as a unit: 
    I'm meeting a group of friends for dinner tonight.
    The car was parked near a small group of trees.
    She showed me another group of pictures, this time of children playing.
- a number of people who play music together, especially pop music: 
    What's your favourite group?
    a pop/rock group
- a business that contains several different companies: 
    United News Media, the national newspaper and television group
- a number of football teams who play each other in a competition. The winners of the group move onto the next stage of the competion : 
    The Danes were the surprise winners of their group.
- the first part of a football competition in which teams are divided into groups and play only the other teams in their group. The winners of each group move onto the next stage of the competition: 
    The team failed to progress beyond the group stages of Euro 2012.
- to form a group or put people or things into a group: 
    We all grouped together around the bride for a family photograph.
    I grouped the children according to age.
    The books were grouped by size.

grow /ɡrəʊ/
grow | grew | grown
- to increase in size or amount, or to become more advanced or developed: 
    Children grow so quickly.
    This plant grows best in the shade.
    She's grown three centimetres this year.
    Football's popularity continues to grow.
    The labour force is expected to grow by two percent next year.
    The male deer grows large, branching horns called antlers.
- If your hair or nails grow, or if you grow them, they become longer: 
    Lottie wants to grow her hair long.
    Are you growing a beard?
    Wow, your hair's grown!
- If a plant grows in a particular place, it exists and develops there: 
    There were roses growing up against the wall.
- If you grow a plant, you put it in the ground and take care of it, usually in order to sell it: 
    The villagers grow coffee and maize to sell in the market.
- to make a business bigger by increasing sales, employing more people, etc.: 
    We aim to grow the company by giving the customer a better deal.
- to gradually become tired, old, calm, etc.: 
    He grew bored of the countryside.
    Growing old is so awful.
- to gradually start to do something: 
    I've grown to like her over the months.
phrasal verbs:
 grow apart
 grow into sb/sth
 grow into sth
 grow on sb
 grow out of sth
 grow up

hat /hæt/
- a covering for the head that is not part of a piece of clothing: 
    a straw hat
    a woolly hat
    a wide-brimmed hat
- used to refer to one of the various jobs or responsibilities that someone has: 
    For this movie, she is wearing the hats of director and actress.
    This is me with my manager's hat on talking.
idioms:
 hats off to sb
 take your hat off to sb
 throw your hat into the ring

hole /həʊl/
- an empty space in an object, usually with an opening to the object's surface, or an opening that goes completely through an object: 
    We dug a hole and planted the tree.
    My jumper's got a hole in it.
    Drill a hole through the back of the cupboard and pass the wires through.
- in golf, one of the small circular spaces in the ground into which the ball is hit
- in golf, one of the usually 18 areas of play: 
    an 18-hole course
- a place in the ground where a small animal lives: 
    a mouse/rabbit/fox hole
- a small unpleasant place where someone lives: 
    What a hole that house was - I'm so pleased we moved.
- a mistake or problem in an argument, discussion, plan, etc.: 
    The new proposal has several holes in it.
- to make a hole in something, especially a ship or boat: 
    A torpedo holed the ship below the water and it quickly sank.
idioms:
 be in a hole
 be in the hole
 a hole in one
 make a hole in sth
 need sth like you need a hole in the head
 play in the hole
 be holed up
phrasal verbs:
 hole up (somewhere)

horse /hɔːs/
- a large animal with four legs that people ride on or use for carrying things or pulling vehicles: 
    to ride a horse
    a horse and cart
- horse races where you try to win money by correctly guessing which horse will win: 
    He spends all his money on the horses.
- a tall piece of equipment that people jump over in gymnastics
- → 
heroin 
idioms:
 (straight) from the horse's mouth
 horses for courses
 you can lead a horse to water, but you can't make him drink

hunt /hʌnt/
- to chase and try to catch and kill an animal or bird for food, sport, or profit: 
    Some animals hunt at night.
    When lion cubs are young, the mother stays with them while the father hunts for food.
    Jack and Charlie like to hunt/go hunting (= chase and kill animals for sport) at weekends.
    Cats like to hunt mice and birds.
    Elephants used to be hunted for the ivory from their tusks.
- in Britain, to chase and kill animals, especially foxes, using dogs and riding on horses
- to try to find something or someone: 
    I've hunted all over the place, but I can't find that book.
    They are still hunting for the missing child.
    I've hunted high and low (= looked everywhere) for my gloves.
    Police are hunting the terrorists who planted the bomb.
    I'll try and hunt out (= find) those old photographs for you.
    They have spent months house-/job-hunting (= looking for a house/a job).
- a search for something or someone: 
    After a long hunt we finally found a house we liked.
    The hunt for the injured climber continued throughout the night.
    Police are on the hunt (= searching) for the kidnappers.
    The hunt is on (= the search has started) for the Mayor's successor.
- the activity of people chasing wild animals in order to kill them: 
    to go on a fox/deer hunt
- in the UK, a group of people who meet regularly in order to chase and kill animals, especially foxes: 
    They are members of the local hunt.
phrasal verbs:
 hunt sb/sth down

ice /aɪs/
- water that has frozen and become solid, or pieces of this: 
    The pond was covered in ice all winter.
    Would you like ice in your juice?
    I've put a couple of bottles of champagne on ice (= in a container of ice to get cold).
    He slipped on a patch of ice.
- an ice cream, especially one bought in a shop: 
    The shop sign said "Drinks, Cakes, Ices!"
- jewellery, especially diamonds
- to cover a cake with icing (= a food made mainly with sugar): 
    I've made her a chocolate cake - now I just need to ice it.
- to murder someone
- abbreviation for Immigration and Customs Enforcement: the US government department that is responsible for making sure that laws on who is allowed to enter, stay in, and work in the US and what is allowed to be brought across US borders are obeyed: 
    The senator urged ICE not to deport the woman, who has four young children.
    In a raid by ICE agents on a clothing manufacturer, more than 100 workers were arrested on immigration-related offences.
- abbreviation for In Case of Emergency: used as a name for a number stored on a person's mobile phone that other people should call if the person is seriously ill or injured: 
    The idea of ICE took off after the 7 July 2005 London bombings.
    Some handsets provide access to a list of ICE contacts directly from the "locked" screen.
idioms:
 be on ice
phrasal verbs:
 ice over
 ice up

inch /ɪntʃ/
- a unit used for measuring length, approximately equal to 2.54 centimetres, sometimes shown by the symbol ″: 
    Twelve inches are equal to one foot.
    He had a cut an inch long above his left eye.
    The snow was six inches deep in some places.
    a piece of wood 2″ by 2″
- to move very slowly or in a lot of short stages: 
    We are inching towards an agreement.
    Share prices inched up/higher during the day.
    Residents watched the flames inch closer and closer.
idioms:
 by inches
 come within an inch of sth
 every inch
 every inch of sth/somewhere
 inch by inch
 not give/budge/move an inch
 give someone an inch and they'll take a mile

include /ɪnˈkluːd/
- to contain something as a part of something else, or to make something part of something else: 
    The bill includes tax and service.
    Tax and service are included in the bill.
    Your responsibilities will include making appointments on my behalf.

increase /ɪnˈkriːs/
- to (make something) become larger in amount or size: 
    Incidents of armed robbery have increased over the last few years.
    The cost of the project has increased dramatically/significantly since it began.
    Gradually increase the temperature to boiling point.
    Increased/Increasing efforts are being made to end the dispute.
- a rise in the amount or size of something: 
    price/tax increases
    There were 39,000 new cases last year - an increase of six percent.
    Any increase in production would be helpful.
- increasing: 
    Homelessness is on the increase in many cities.

indicate /ˈɪn.dɪ.keɪt/
- to show, point, or make clear in another way: 
    Exploratory investigations have indicated large amounts of oil below the sea bed.
    Please indicate which free gift you would like to receive.
    She indicated to me (that) she didn't want me to say anything.
- to show other road users that you intend to turn left or right when you are driving a vehicle
- When a device indicates a value or change, it signals it: 
    The gauge indicates a temperature below freezing.
- to suggest something as being suitable: 
    Antihistamine is indicated for this patient as a treatment for her allergies.
    I'm so hot and tired - I think a long cool drink is indicated!

information /ˌɪn.fəˈmeɪ.ʃən/
- facts about a situation, person, event, etc.: 
    Do you have any information about/on train times?
    I read an interesting bit/piece of information in the newspaper.
    For further information (= if you want to know more), please contact your local library.
    We have reliable information that a strike is planned next month.
idioms:
 too much information

insect /ˈɪn.sekt/
- a type of very small animal with six legs, a body divided into three parts and usually two pairs of wings, or, more generally, any similar very small animal: 
    Ants, beetles, butterflies, and flies are all insects.
    I've got some sort of insect bite on my leg.

instrument /ˈɪn.strə.mənt/
- an object, such as a piano, guitar, or drum, that is played to produce musical sounds: 
    Which instrument do you play?
- a tool or other device, especially one without electrical power, used for performing a particular piece of work: 
    surgical instruments
    instruments of torture
    The man's injuries had obviously been caused by a blunt instrument.
- a device used for measuring speed, height, etc. in vehicles, especially aircraft: 
    the instrument panel
    The lightning had damaged the plane's instruments, and they weren't giving any readings.
- a way of achieving or causing something: 
    He saw the theatre as an instrument of change - a way of forcing people to consider social and political issues.
- a type of investment in a company or in government debt that can be traded on the financial markets: 
    They trade in the debt instruments of developing countries.
    increasingly complex financial instruments

iron /aɪən/
- a chemical element that is a common greyish-coloured metal. It is strong, used in making steel, and exists in very small amounts in blood: 
    Iron rusts easily.
    Liver is a particularly rich source of dietary iron.
    iron ore
    an iron deficiency
- a piece of equipment for making clothes flat and smooth that has a handle and a flat base and is usually heated with electricity: 
    a steam iron
    a travel iron
- a stick that has an iron or steel part at the end that is used to hit the ball in golf: 
    He'll probably use a 2 or 3 iron for the shot.
- chains tied around someone to prevent them from escaping or moving: 
    It was common practice for the prisoners to be clapped in irons (= tied with chains).
- to make clothes flat and smooth using an iron: 
    It takes about five minutes to iron a shirt properly.
- very strong physically, mentally, or emotionally: 
    I think you have to have an iron will to make some of these decisions.
idioms:
 an iron hand/fist in a velvet glove
 rule sth with an iron hand/fist
 have a few, several, etc. irons in the fire
phrasal verbs:
 iron sth out

is strong /ɪz/
- he/she/it form of
be 

itself /ɪtˈself/
- used when the subject of the verb is "it" and the object is the same thing, animal, situation, or idea: 
    The cat licked itself all over.
    You have to do something about the problem - it isn't just going to resolve itself.
- used to emphasize the subject when it is a thing, animal, situation, or idea: 
    The shop itself (= only the shopand nothing else) started 15 years ago but the internet side of the business is new.
- alone or without help: 
    The animal had been left in the house by itself for a week.
    A cough will usually get better by itself.
- for its use only: 
    The committee kept the results of the survey to itself (= did not tell anyone), fearing a bad public reaction.

job /dʒɒb/
- the regular work that a person does to earn money: 
    a temporary/permanent job
    When she left college, she got a job as an editor in a publishing company.
    It's very difficult trying to bring up two children while doing a full-time job.
    He's never managed to hold down (= keep) a steady (= permanent) job.
    She's applied for a job with an insurance company.
    Are you going to give up your job when you have your baby?
    After a disastrous first month in office, many people are beginning to wonder if the new president is up to (= able to do) the job.
    Hundreds of workers could lose their jobs.
- without a job: 
    How long have you been out of a job?
- a particular piece of work: 
    The builders are aiming to get the job done by the end of the month.
    He spent the afternoon doing jobs around the house.
    Will you be able to carry all the shopping back home on your bike, or will it have to be a car job (= will you need the car)?
- something that is your responsibility: 
    She believed her job as a politician was to represent the views of her party and the people who voted for her.
    I know it's not my job to tell you how to run your life, but I do think you've made a mistake.
- a problem or an activity that is difficult: 
    It was a real job getting the wheel off the bike.
    We were only given an hour for the exam, and I had a job finishing it.
- an example of a particular type: 
    It's an original, not one of those imitation jobs.
- a crime in which money or goods are stolen, or an action or activity that is dishonest or unpleasant: 
    He was put in prison for five years for doing a bank job.
    He really did a job on her, telling her that he would always love her and then moving to Fiji with someone else.
idioms:
 be just the job
 do a good/bad job
 do the job
 do/make a good/bad job of sth
 good job!
 it's more than my job's worth
 job done
 jobs for the boys
 just the man/woman for the job
 on-the-job

lady /ˈleɪ.di/
- a polite or old-fashioned way of referring to or talking to a woman: 
    There's a young lady here to see you.
    Mind your language - there are ladies present!
    Say "thank you" to the lady, children.
    Is the lady of the house (= the most important or only woman who lives in the house) at home?
- a woman who behaves in a way that is traditionally considered to be suitable for a woman: 
    Of course I remember Mrs Connor - she was a real lady.
- sometimes used before the name of a job done by a woman: 
    a lady doctor
- used to talk to a woman in a way that is not polite and is considered offensive by many women: 
    Hey, lady, what's the rush?
- a women's toilet in a public place or building such as a hotel or restaurant: 
    I'm just going to the ladies.
    Is there a ladies on this floor?
- used to talk to the members of the audience when you are making a speech: 
    Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to our show.
- a title given in the UK to a woman or girl who has the social rank of a peer, or to the wife of a peer or knight: 
    Lady Diana Spencer
    Sir Charles and Lady Finlater

lake /leɪk/
- a large area of water surrounded by land and not connected to the sea except by rivers or streams: 
    We used to go boating on that lake.
    Lake Windermere
- an amount of a liquid produced that is more than is needed, so that it has to be stored or wasted: 
    Overproduction caused butter mountains and wine lakes.

land /lænd/
- the surface of the earth that is not covered by water: 
    It is cheaper to drill for oil on land than at sea.
    The treaty has led to a dramatic reduction in the number of land-based missiles in Europe.
    The military commanders won't deploy their land forces until they're satisfied that the air attacks have done their job.
- an area of ground, especially when used for a particular purpose such as farming or building: 
    This sort of land is no good for growing potatoes.
    I always prosecute people who trespass on my land.
    We want to buy a plot of land to build a house.
- farms, farming, and the countryside: 
    Most of the families lived off the land (= grew their own food, etc.).
    My parents worked (on) the land.
- a country: 
    a land of ice and snow
    The group want to promote their ideas in schools throughout the land.
- to (cause to) arrive on the ground or other surface after moving down through the air: 
    We should land in Madrid at 7 a.m.
    You can land a plane on water in an emergency.
    The bird landed on my finger.
    The report first landed on my desk this morning.
- to arrive on land from the sea: 
    We landed at Port Said in the early evening.
- to arrive at or appear on a particular website: 
    If you click on the link you land on his blog. 
    The allegations attracted a lot of attention when they landed on the Drudge Report site in the morning.
- to take goods or people off a ship or aircraft: 
    The general's plan involved landing troops behind enemy lines.
- to catch a fish with a hook (= curved piece of wire) or net and remove it from the water: 
    He landed a huge salmon.
- to get or achieve something good, especially in a way that seems easy or unexpected: 
    He landed a senior editorial job.
- to happen or succeed as intended: 
    Some of his jokes didn't really land, but he was pretty funny.
idioms:
 be in the land of nod
 be in the land of the living
 find out/see how the land lies
 land of milk and honey
 the land of the midnight sun
 the Land of the Rising Sun
 land on your feet
phrasal verbs:
 land sb in sth
 land up
 land sb with sth

language /ˈlæŋ.ɡwɪdʒ/
- a system of communication consisting of sounds, words, and grammar, or the system of communication used by people in a particular country or type of work: 
    She does research into how children acquire language.
    Do you speak any foreign languages?"
    I'm hopeless at learning languages.
    the English language
    legal/technical language
    the language of business
    Java and Perl are both important computer programming languages (= systems of writing instructions for computers).
idioms:
 speak/talk the same language

large /lɑːdʒ/
- big in size or amount: 
    a large house
    the world's largest computer manufacturer
    We need a larger car.
    We didn't expect such a large number of people to attend the concert.
    We've made good progress, but there's still a large amount of work to be done.
    There was a larger-than-expected fall in unemployment last month.
    Researchers have just completed the largest-ever survey of criminal behaviour in the UK
    The population faces starvation this winter without large-scale emergency food aid.
- enjoying yourself very much by dancing and drinking alcohol: 
    We were larging it at a club last night.
idioms:
 by and large
 (as) large as life
 larger than life

lay /leɪ/
lay | laid
- to put something in especially a flat or horizontal position, usually carefully or for a particular purpose: 
    She laid the baby on the bed.
    He laid the tray down on the table.
    She laid aside her book and went to answer the phone.
    We're having a new carpet laid in the hall next week.
    The plan is to lay (= build) the foundations for the new apartments in October.
- to prepare a plan or a method of doing something: 
    Even the best laid plans go wrong sometimes.
- past simple of
lie 
- (of an animal or bird) to produce eggs from out of the body: 
    Thousands of turtles drag themselves onto the beach and lay their eggs in the sand.
- to have sex with someone: 
    So did you get laid (= find someone to have sex with)?
- to risk something, usually money, on the result of an event: 
    She won't get the job - I'd lay money on it!
- to express a claim, legal statement, etc. in a serious or official way: 
    She can't accept she made a mistake and now she's trying to lay the blame on (= accuse) her assistant.
    Do you understand the seriousness of the charge (= legal accusation) that has been laid against you?
- to say that you own something: 
    Two companies have laid claim to the design.
- not trained in or not having a detailed knowledge of a particular subject: 
    From a lay viewpoint the questionnaire is virtually incomprehensible.
- having a position in a religious organization that is not a full-time job and is not paid: 
    a lay preacher
- used to describe how good someone is at sex, or how often they have sex: 
    She's a good lay (= sex with her is enjoyable).
    She got a reputation as an easy lay (= she was thought to have slept with a lot of people).
idioms:
 lay sth at sb's door
 lay sb low
 lay sth on the line
 lay yourself open to attack, criticism, ridicule, etc.
 lay sb to rest
 lay sth to rest
 lay sth (to) waste
 lay a finger on sb
 lay a hand on sb
 lay bare sth
 lay it on a bit thick
 lay the basis/foundations for sth
 lay the ghost of sth (to rest)
 lay up trouble for yourself
phrasal verbs:
 lay sth aside
 lay sth down
 lay sth in
 lay into sb
 lay sb off
 lay off (sth/sb)
 lay sth off
 lay sth on
 lay sth out
 lay sb out
 lay sb up

leg /leɡ/
- one of the parts of the body of a human or animal that is used for standing or walking: 
    My legs were tired after so much walking.
    He broke his leg skiing.
    The horse broke its front leg in the fall.
- the part of a piece of clothing that you put your leg in: 
    He rolled up his trouser legs and waded into the water.
- one of the thin vertical parts that support an object: 
    a chair/table leg
- a particular stage of a journey, competition, or activity: 
    He has tickets for the first leg of the NCAA Men's Hockey Championship.
    The last leg of the race was Paris to London.
- to run away in order to escape from something: 
    They legged it round the corner when they saw the police coming.
idioms:
 get your leg over
 give sb a leg up
 have a leg up on sb
 have legs
 leg before wicket
 not have a leg to stand on
 pull sb's leg

length /leŋθ/
- the measurement of something from end to end or along its longest side: 
    The boat is ten metres in length.
    The length of the bay is approximately 200 miles.
    She planted rose bushes (along) the length of the fence (= the whole distance along it).
- a piece of something such as string or pipe: 
    a length of rope
- a unit used in describing the distance by which a horse or boat wins a race, equal to the measurement from one end of the horse or boat to the other: 
    We won by two lengths.
- the distance from one end of a swimming pool to the other: 
    She swims 40 lengths a day.
- the amount of time something lasts: 
    the length of a film/speech/play
    He is unable to concentrate on his work for any length of time (= for anything more than a short time).
- the amount of writing in a book or document: 
    He's written books of various lengths on the subject.
    All of your essays will be about the same length.
- for a long time: 
    George went on at great length about his various illnesses.
- If something happens at length, it happens after a long period of time: 
    At length, the authorities allowed her to go home.
- long enough to reach the stated place: 
    a knee-length skirt
    shoulder-length hair
- of the stated amount of time: 
    a full-length movie (= one which has not been shortened)
idioms:
 go to great lengths
 the length and breadth of somewhere

level /ˈlev.əl/
- the height of something: 
    The water level in the lake is much higher after heavy rain.
- the amount or number of something: 
    Inflation is going to rise two percent from its present level.
    Chess requires a very high level of concentration.
    There is some danger of low level (= a continuing small amount of) radiation.
- someone's ability compared to other people: 
    a class for advanced level students
    Students at this level require a lot of help.
    The exam can be taken at three levels.
- a floor in a large building: 
    The library has three levels, with a conference centre at ground level.
    The exhibition is on level three of the building.
- a position within a system in which people are arranged according to their importance: 
    These are subjects for discussion at management level.
- relating to a particular area of the country/the whole of the country: 
    These sorts of policies are made at local level.
- a tool that contains a tube of liquid with an air bubble in it, used to show if a surface is level
- at the same height: 
    The top of the tree is level with his bedroom window.
- flat or horizontal: 
    Make sure the camera is level before you take the picture.
    Before I bang the nails in, would you say this picture was level?
- an amount of a liquid or substance that fills a spoon/cup but does not go above the edges, used as a measure in cooking
- having the same value, amount, number of points, etc.: 
    Pieretti would have to win the next three stages in order to draw level with (= reach the same position as) Le Sage in the Tour de France.
    The unions are fighting to keep wages level (US usually even) with inflation.
- If you speak in a level voice or give someone a level look, you do it in a calm and controlled way: 
    In a level voice, he ordered the soldiers to aim and fire.
- to make a surface flat: 
    Level the wet cement before it sets.
- to completely destroy a building or area: 
    The bombing levelled the village.
idioms:
 be on the level
 find your own level
 on one level...on another level
 the next level
 do your level best
 level pegging
 a level playing field
phrasal verbs:
 level sth against/at sb
 level sth at sb
 level off
 level off/out
 level up
 level sth up
 level with sb

lift /lɪft/
- to move something from a lower to a higher position: 
    Could you help me lift this table, please?
    Could you lift your chair a little- I've got my coat caught under it.
    She lifted the cigarette (up) to her lips.
    He lifted his eyes (= looked up) from the paper and glared.
- to win a race or competition in which the prize is a metal cup: 
    He is the hot favourite to lift the cup again next month.
- to dig underground vegetables or plants out of the ground: 
    They're lifting potatoes.
- to take hold of and raise something in order to remove, carry, or move it to a different position: 
    She lifted the baby out of her chair.
    He lifted the box carefully down from the shelf.
- to make your voice louder, especially when performing
- to make something more interesting or enjoyable: 
    The article is informative enough, but it's a little dull - we need something to lift it.
- to make someone happier: 
    Nothing - not even the prospect of dinner - could lift his spirits.
- (of mist or fog) to go away until none is left: 
    The morning mist had lifted and the sun was starting to come through.
- to end a rule or law: 
    The restrictions on water usage have been lifted now that the river levels are normal.
    At last they've lifted the ban on jeans at the club.
- to steal something
- to use someone else's writing, music, or idea, pretending that it is your own: 
    He'd lifted whole passages from a website.
- a device like a box that moves up and down, carrying people or goods from one floor of a building to another or taking people up and down underground in a mine: 
    Take the lift to the sixth floor.
- an act of lifting or raising something: 
    Give it one more lift and we'll have it at the top of the stairs.
- the force on the wing of a bird or aircraft that keeps it in the air as it moves forward
- a free journey in another person's vehicle, especially a car: 
    I'll give you a lift to the train station if you like.
    He hitched a lift (= stood by the road and made a signal asking a car to stop and take him) to Birmingham.
- to make someone happier: 
    She'd been feeling low but hearing that she'd got the job gave her a lift.

main /meɪn/
- larger, more important, or having more influence than others of the same type: 
    The main thing is not to worry.
    One of the main reasons I came to England was to study the language.
    You'll find the main points of my proposal in the report.
    Our main aim/objective is to improve the company's productivity.
    The main problem is a lack of resources.
    My main concern about moving to San Fransisco is the cost of housing.
- a large pipe that carries water or gas, or a wire carrying electricity, from one place to another, to which a house can be connected: 
    a gas main
    The severe cold caused a water main to burst and flood the street.
- the system of pipes or wires that carry water or electricity into a house, or the pipes that carry sewage away from a house: 
    The house isn't on the mains.
    They bought a house with no mains supply.
    mains electricity
- the place at which outside pipes or wires carrying water, electricity, etc. connect with the system inside a house or building: 
    Switch off the electricity at the mains before starting work.
- generally or mostly: 
    Her friends are teachers in the main.
idioms:
 be sb's main squeeze

many /ˈmen.i/
- used mainly in negative sentences and questions and with "too", "so", and "as" to mean "a large number of": 
    I don't have many clothes.
    Not many people have heard of him.
    There aren't very many weekends between now and Christmas.
    Were there many cars on the road?
    How many students are there in each class?
    Many people would disagree with your ideas.
    Rachel was at the party with her many admirers.
    I've met him so many times and I still can't remember his name!
    There are too many people chasing too few jobs.
    If there are only five of us going to the concert, then I've booked one too many seats.
    If there were as many women as there are men in parliament, the situation would be very different.
    As many as (= the surprisingly large number of) 6,000 people may have been infected with the disease.
    There are already twelve bottles of wine, so if I buy as many again (= another twelve bottles) we'll have enough.
    A good/great many people who voted for her in the last election will not be doing so this time.
    She had five children in as many (= in the same number of) years and decided it was enough.
idioms:
 in so many words
 many a time
 many happy returns (of the day)
 many's the
 one too many

map /mæp/
- a drawing of the earth's surface, or part of that surface, showing the shape and position of different countries, political borders, natural features such as rivers and mountains, and artificial features such as roads and buildings: 
    a map of the world
    a map of Paris
    a road map
    We need a large-scale map showing all the footpaths that we can walk along.
    I'm terrible at map reading (= understanding maps).
- a drawing that gives you a particular type of information about a particular area: 
    He bought a map showing the population distribution of Scotland.
- something that shows the position of stars in the sky or the features on the surface of planets: 
    a celestial map
    a map of Mars
- a very simple drawing that shows a direction of travel between one place and another: 
    I'll draw you a quick map if you're worried about finding the hotel.
- to represent an area of land in the form of a map: 
    Parts of the mountainous region in the north of the country have still not been mapped.
idioms:
 blow, bomb, wipe, etc. sth off the map
 put sth/sb on the map
phrasal verbs:
 map sth out

march /mɑːtʃ/
- an event in which a large number of people walk through a public place to express their support for something, or their disagreement with or disapproval of something: 
    She's going on a march on Saturday in protest over the closure of the hospital.
- a piece of music with a strong, regular beat, written for marching to: 
    a funeral march
    Mendelssohn's Wedding March
- a walk, especially by a group of soldiers all walking with the same movement and speed: 
    It had been a long march and the soldiers were weary.
    The border was within a day's march (= distance measured in time taken to walk it).
- If soldiers are on the march, they have started marching to a place.
- the continuous development of a state, activity, or idea: 
    It is impossible to stop the forward march of progress/time.
    The island is being destroyed by the relentless march of tourism.
- to walk somewhere quickly and in a determined way, often because you are angry: 
    She marched into my office and demanded to know why I hadn't written my report.
- to walk through a public place as part of a public event to express support for something, or disagreement with or disapproval of something: 
    Over four thousand people marched through London today to protest against the proposed new law.
- to walk with regular steps and keeping the body stiff, usually in a formal group of people who are all walking in the same way: 
    The band marched through the streets.
    The soldiers marched 90 miles in three days.
- to forcefully make someone go somewhere by taking hold of that person and pulling them there or going there together: 
    Without saying a word, she took hold of my arm and marched me off to the headmaster's office.
    The police marched a gang of youths out of the building.
- the third month of the year, after February and before April: 
    The next meeting will be in March.
    He left on 26 March.
    She is retiring next March.
idioms:
 quick march!

bacon /ˈbeɪ.kən/
- meat from the back or sides of a pig, often eaten fried in thin slices: 
    a bacon sandwich
    a slice/rasher of bacon
    bacon and eggs

gap /ɡæp/
- an empty space or opening in the middle of something or between two things: 
    The children squeezed through a gap in the wall.
    She has a small gap between her front teeth.
- an opportunity for a product or service that does not already exist: 
    There is a gap in the magazine market that needs to be filled.
- a difference between two things: 
    The gap between rich and poor is still widening (= becoming greater).
- a period of time spent doing something different: 
    After a gap of five years, Jennifer decided to go back to work full-time.
idioms:
 bridge a/the gap

pan /pæn/
- a metal container that is round and often has a long handle and a lid, used for cooking things on top of a cooker: 
    Heat the milk in a small pan.
    This dishwasher even washes pots and pans (= different types of pan).
- a metal container without a lid used for cooking food in the oven: 
    Put both cake pans in the oven for half an hour.
- the bowl-shaped part of a toilet
- → 
paan 
- (of a video camera) to move slowly from one side to another or up and down: 
    In the first scene, the camera pans slowly across the room.
- to criticize something severely: 
    The critics panned the movie version of the novel.
- including or relating to all the places or people in a particular group: 
    a pan-American conference
    a pan-European summit
    the Pan-African Congress
idioms:
 go down the pan
phrasal verbs:
 pan out

read /riːd/
read | read | read uk


Your browser doesn't support HTML5 audio






/red/ us


Your browser doesn't support HTML5 audio






/red/
- to look at words or symbols and understand what they mean: 
    He spent a pleasant afternoon reading (the newspaper/a book).
    I read about the family's success in the local paper.
    It was too dark to read our map and we took a wrong turning.
    Can you read music?
    Your handwriting is so untidy I can't read it.
    I've read in the newspapers (that) there is a threat of war.
    Put your plastic card in the slot, and the machine will read it and identify who you are.
    Some children can read (= have learned the skill of reading) by the age of four.
- to say the words that are printed or written: 
    She read (the poem) slowly and quietly.
    Their teacher always reads them a story at the end of the day.
    Children love to have stories read (aloud/out) to them.
- to understand and give a particular meaning to written information, a statement, a situation, etc.: 
    She missed the train because she read 18.30 p.m. as 8.30 p.m. instead of 6.30 p.m. 
    On page 19, for "Blitish", please read "British".
    If I've read the situation correctly, we should have some agreement on the contract by the end of the week.
- How you read a piece of writing, or how it reads, is how it seems when you read it: 
    The letter reads as if it was written in a hurry.
    Her latest novel reads well (= is written in an attractive way).
- (especially when communicating by radio), to hear and understand someone: 
    Do you read me?
    I read you loud and clear.
- to read aloud to someone until they go to sleep: 
    Every night when I was a child my father used to read me to sleep.
- (of something written or printed) to have or give the stated information or meaning: 
    The start of the US Constitution reads "We, the people of the United States..."
    The thermometer is reading 40°C in the shade.
- to study at university or to study for a specialized qualification: 
    They're both reading history at Cambridge.
    She's reading for the Bar (= studying to become a type of lawyer called a barrister).
- the act of reading something: 
    It's not brilliant but it's worth a read.
    The book is a good/easy, etc. read.
    Could I have a read of (= can I read) your newspaper?
idioms:
 read sb's lips
 read sb's mind
 read sb's palm
 read (sb) the riot act
 read between the lines
 read my lips
 read the runes
 take sth as read
phrasal verbs:
 read sth into sth
 read sth out
 read sth over/through
 read up (on/about) sth

made /meɪd/
- past simple and past participle of
make : 
    He was wearing a suit made from pure silk.
    The house was made of wood with an iron roof.
- produced in the stated way or place: 
    On the bottom of the watch it said "Swiss-made".
idioms:
 have (got) it made
 made to order

morning /ˈmɔː.nɪŋ/
- the part of the day from the time when the sun rises or you wake up until the middle of the day or lunch time: 
    a beautiful/sunny/wet morning
    I work three mornings a week at the bookshop.
    She only works in the mornings.
    What's our schedule for this morning?
    I'd like an appointment for tomorrow morning, please.
    I'll see you on Saturday morning.
    I had too much to drink at Sarah's party, and I felt terrible the morning after.
- during the early part of the day: 
    I listen to the radio in the morning.
- at some time between twelve o'clock at night and twelve o'clock in the middle of the day: 
    The murder took place at four in the morning.
- the next morning: 
    She said she would see you in the morning.
- a friendly way of greeting people when you meet them in the morning: 
    Morning, Sue! How are you today?
idioms:
 morning, noon, and night

OK /ˌəʊˈkeɪ/
- used to show that you agree with something or agree to do something: 
    "I'll pay you back tomorrow." "OK, no problem."
    "Could you pick me up from work?" "OK, what time?"
    I mean, OK (= I accept that), I wasn't exactly polite to him, but I don't think I was that rude!
- used to check that someone understands something or that they agree to something: 
    You need to add more vinegar, OK?
    I'll see you at 6.30, okay?
- used as a way of showing that you are going to take action or start something new: 
    Okay, let's go.
    Okay then, if you're ready we'll start.
- used in the middle of a sentence as a way of pausing: 
    We saw these guys, okay, so we went up to them and started talking.
- agreed or acceptable: 
    Is it okay if I bring a friend to the party?
    If it's okay by/with you, I'll come over tomorrow instead.
- in a satisfactory state or of a satisfactory quality: 
    How's Paula? Is she okay after her fall yesterday?
    Are you OK? You look very pale.
    "Is everything OK with you?" "Yes, fine."
    I'll just check that the car's okay - that noise from the engine doesn't sound good!
- not bad but certainly not good: 
    "Did you have a good dinner out last night?" "It was okay - I've definitely had better."
    Her voice is OK, but it's nothing special.
- in a satisfactory way: 
    Everything was going OK until the printer stopped working.
    Did you sleep okay?
    I just called to make sure that you got there okay.
- to agree to something: 
    Have the committee OK'd your proposal?
- permission: 
    He got the OK to go ahead with his project.
- written abbreviation for the US state of Oklahoma: used in addresses

autumn /ˈɔː.təm/
- the season of the year between summer and winter, lasting from September to November north of the equator and from March to May south of the equator, when fruits and crops become ready to eat and are picked, and leaves fall: 
    We like to travel in (the) autumn when there are fewer tourists.
    Last autumn we went to Germany.
    It's been a very mild autumn.
    autumn colours/leaves
    an autumn day/evening
idioms:
 autumn years

